Code of Conduct for Students of DIT University 
(Extract of the Discipline Ordinance of DIT University, Dehradun) 

 
 

1. HONOR CODE FOR STUDENTS 
Honor code for students of DIT University is as under: 

 I shall uphold the honour and image of DIT University at all times. 

 I shall never use any unfair means or involve in plagiarism. 

 I shall be punctual and always come well prepared for the class. I shall be attentive in the class 
and never indulge in daydreaming and boasting. 

 I shall not hesitate to give my views/new ideas freely. 

 I shall display selflessness, team spirit and cooperation. 

 I shall be honest and truthful in all dealings. 

 I shall never involve/indulge in sycophancy and manipulation. 

 I shall be respectful and obedient to our teachers and other staff. 

 I shall maintain highest standards of discipline and social grace at all times. 

 I shall be making continual endeavour for self-improvement by pursuing self-learning. 

 I shall shun all parochial tendencies based on caste, religion, race and gender. 

 
 

2. CODE OF CONDUCT TO BE OBSERVED DURING EXAMINATIONS BY THE 
STUDENTS 

 
The students of DIT University are to adhere to following instructions during the conduct of the 
Examination: 

i. Students should report half an hour before commencement of examination for the first examination 
paper and 15 minutes before subsequently. 

ii. Students arriving half an hour after commencement of the examination shall not be permitted to appear 
in the examination. 

iii. Students reporting late and permitted to appear in examination shall not be given any extra time. 

iv. Students must be seated as per the seating plan displayed. 

v. Students must report for examination in proper university uniform. 

vi. They must bring admit card with pasted photograph as well as Identity Card. 

vii. They must bring blue/black ball pen, pencil for bubbling the OMR Sheet, non-programmable 

calculator and necessary drawing instruments, etc. 

viii. Mobile phones, pager, programmable calculators and tablets, Smart Watches or any other 
electronic gadgets are strictly prohibited in the Examination Hall. Use or possession of any of these 
items shall be treated as use of unfair means. Besides, these items shall be seized by COE. 

ix. No written material in any form, as chits, printed or hand written pages are permitted in the 
examination hall. 

x. Writing on palm, other body parts, clothes, desks, calculator instrument box and on admit card, etc 
shall be treated as use of unfair means. 

xi. Students must write their full roll number on their question papers and nothing else. Exchange of 
question papers shall be treated as use of unfair means. 

xii. Students must not bring books/notes, mobile phone and other expensive items on the day of 
examination. In case they bring any such items the same will be deposited in the space earmarked for 
the same, however students will remain responsible for the safety of their belongings. 

xiii. Complete silence must be observed during examination. Talking to other students, peeping into the 
answer sheets nearby and exposing of their answer sheets to facilitate copying by others shall be 
viewed as use of unfair means. 

xiv. Students are not permitted to leave examination hall during the initial stipulated period at the 
commencement of the examination and 15 minutes before expiry of examination period. 

xv. No one shall be allowed to write after prescribed time is over. 

xvi. Smoking, chewing of tobacco and use of the intoxicants is strictly prohibited in the examination 
hall. 

xvii. Students must take due care while filling the OMR Sheet. In particular the entries of roll number 

must be double checked. 

xviii. Making wrong entry in roll number column is a serious offense and shall attract severe punishment. 

xix. Students are advised to read carefully all the instructions given on Question Paper, Admit Card and on 
the top page of the answer sheet. 

xx. Exchanging pen, pencil, rubber, calculator or any other material in the examination hall is strictly 
prohibited. 

xxi. Leave two line space after completion of answer of each question or part there of. 

xxii. Question number or a part there of should be clearly mentioned in the left margin before answering the 
same. 

xxiii. Rough work carried out must be crossed out clearly. 

xxiv. Students are not allowed to leave examination hall without handing over answer books to the 
invigilators. 

xxv. During the period of examinations students are not permitted to take out question papers and answer 
sheets. 

xxvi. Students are not allowed to enter any signs or marks or making irrelevant requests or entering their 
names/roll number in any form anywhere in the answer book. The same would be construed as unfair 
practice liable for disciplinary action. 
 
3. DISCIPLINE RULES TO BE OBSERVED BY THE STUDENTS WITHIN OR OUTSIDE 

THE CAMPUS OF THE UNIVERSITY 
 

i. All the students admitted in the University will have to observe and abide by the discipline rules 
prescribed by the University and he/she will submit to the disciplinary jurisdiction of the Vice 
Chancellor and other competent officers or authorities or bodies of the University as the case may be 
and in this respect he/she has to submit the declaration in the prescribed Proforma. 

ii. The student will also be required to give an undertaking in the prescribed Proforma to be filled up and 
signed by the candidate and his parent/guardian to the effect that he/she is aware of the University’s 
Anti-Ragging Policies and the punishment to which he/she shall be liable, if found guilty of Ragging. 

iii. Every student must carry his/her Identity Card which should be produced when demanded. 

iv. It is mandatory for the students to attend the classes, sessions, co-curricular and extra-curricular 
activities etc. on all working days from the start to the end of the term/semester/trimester. Absence due 
to illness or unavoidable circumstances shall be considered only if the application is supported with 
medical certificate in case of illness and/or leave application form from the parent is submitted to the 
competent Authority. 

v. Students are expected to behave in a responsible manner and abstain from chatting amongst 
themselves while the class is in progress. 

vi. Students are expected to be polite individually or in groups and show respect to the faculty/ staff of the 
University. 

vii. Any indiscipline and misbehaviour in class or in the Campus or in the University/Public Transport or 
even outside the Campus would warrant disciplinary action against the student(s). 

viii. Any action of any individual, group or a wing, which amounts to interference in the regular 
administration of University, is prohibited. Disciplinary actions will be initiated against such 
student(s). 

ix. Causing dis-figuration or damage to the property of the University or belongings of faculty/staff 
members or students is prohibited. 

x. No student shall indulge in any activity that might be illegal or may lead to disorderliness. 

xi. No student shall be in possession of liquor, drugs or any intoxicating materials, nor would consume 
such things. 

xii. Smoking cigarettes/ chewing pan or tobacco or gutkha is strictly prohibited. 

xiii. Indecent behaviour in any form will not be tolerated. 

xiv. Use of mobile phone is strictly prohibited in the classrooms, corridors, or anywhere in the Academic 
and Administrative area. 

xv. Activities like video shooting, photography, playing musical instruments and listening to radio, tape 
recorder loudly, etc. are prohibited on the Campus except with the permission of the Competent 
Authority. 

xvi. The students are expected to be in the class rooms/laboratories or any place of study on time prior to 
the commencement of the study. 

xvii. Use of helmet is compulsory for everyone who rides a two-wheeler to and from the Campus. Violation 
of traffic rules by any one jeopardizing orderly traffic and safe journey on the road is prohibited and is 
subject to disciplinary action. 

xviii. On uniform-days, every student will wear uniform with decent shoes. No students will be permitted to 
attend classes without proper uniform. First year students will wear proper uniform on all working 3
days. On non-uniform days students will wear decent clothes and shoes. Multi-pocket jeans, Caprees, 
Low waist pants, slogan printed T-Shirt and slippers are not permitted in the Campus. 

xix. Any form of ragging anywhere within the campus, outside or while traveling is strictly prohibited. 

xx. Any kind of misuse of Internet, Intranet or computer software, Mobile etc. is strictly prohibited. 

xxi. Disobeying any instructions issued by the Competent Authorities will be considered as an act of 
indiscipline. 

xxii. Possession or use of firearms, fireworks, explosives, weapons, or items deemed to be weapons of any 
description are strictly prohibited. 

xxiii. Gambling and betting (offline or online) for money or other items of value on University premises, 
including but not limited to, playing cards, chain business (Multi-Level Marketing) or other games of 
chance or skill for money or other items of value. 

xxiv. Failure to comply with directions of University officials or disorderly abusive conduct towards 
University officials discharging their duties. 

xxv. Misuse of fire safety equipment, setting fires, failure to evacuate the building during a fire alarm or 
violation of any fire safety policy are strictly prohibited. 

xxvi. Misuse of social networking sites is prohibited. 

xxvii. Any offensive or derogatory conduct or comments by the students reflecting bias towards 
gender/caste/creed/region/color, etc. or which creates sense of intimidation, harassment or which 
represents violation of the rights or opportunities of the victim(s) will be dealt with severely. 

xxviii. Any students who makes unwelcome sexual advances or any other unwelcome verbal or written 
communication with sexual connotation will be liable for strict punishment. 

xxix. The use of phone, email or any other method designed to transmit messages or materials of an explicit 
sexual nature/objectionable communication is considered as criminal offence and will be dealt with 
severely. 

xxx. Participation in political activities by any student is strictly prohibited. 

xxxi. The items which are not covered above and which the Competent Authorities considers as an act of 
indiscipline under these Ordinances. 
 

4. DISCIPLINE RULES TO BE OBSERVED IN THE HOSTELS OF THE UNIVERSITY  
i. In the hostel the students are expected to conduct themselves in a manner, which will not cause 
offence and inconvenience to other hostelers. 

ii. The students must observe complete discipline inside the hostel premises and see that no wasteful, 
improper and destructive use is made of amenities such as water, electricity, furniture, etc. The 
students shall be responsible for any damage done in the building or any other articles in the hostel, 
and will be required to pay for the damages as decided by the Competent Authority. 

iii. Each student must ensure that his/her action does not lead to breach of privacy or cause inconvenience 
to other residents of the hostel. 

iv. The student must observe decent behaviour in such a way that it will not cause disturbance of any kind 
to his/her fellow residents. 

v. No hostelers are permitted to keep any motorized vehicle on campus or anywhere in Dehradun. 

vi. Students shall be in the Campus/Hostel premises by the designated time as decided by the competent 
authority.
vii. No waste paper or rubbish would be thrown around/in the hostel. When the student(s) goes out of the 

room, he/she must ensure that the lights are switched off. 

viii. A student shall only occupy the room when seat is allotted to him/ her in the hostel and shall not 
change the same without permission. 

ix. Hostel student shall not stay overnight out of the hostel without the permission of official designated 
by the Competent Authorities. Permission for such requirement shall be sought in writing, indicating 
the address with the telephone number at which the student will be spending night. 

x. Under no circumstances, the boys and girls are permitted to enter the rooms of each other. 

xi. Ragging in the hostel and on the Campus is strictly prohibited. Any student indulging in this will be 
liable to be punished as prescribed against Ragging. 

xii. Gambling, possession and usage of alcoholic drink and narcotics anywhere within the hostel premises 
or Campus is strictly prohibited. This is in accordance with the legal requirements of the state, and 
breach of this clause under state laws will be dealt with according to law. 

xiii. No celebrations or social gatherings shall be held in the hostel premises without the prior permission 
of the Competent Authorities. 

xiv. Silence period must be observed from 10.30 pm to 6.00 am by hostelers. 

xv. All complaints about the staff working in the hostel shall be made to the warden and under no 
circumstances the students will abuse or assault the staff. 

xvi. Hostel seat is not a right. It is a privilege which demands disciplined behavior from the inmates at all 
times. The hostelers must attend all classes and appear in all tests and exams. They must abide by all 
hostel rules and Ordinances in letter and spirit. 

xvii. Hostel seats are available in limited numbers and therefore the same will be allotted on the basis of 
First-Come-First-Served and merit* to first year/second year lateral entry students and continuing 
students respectively. 

xviii. Hostel accommodation will be made available to a student only for the stipulated actual duration of the 
course. Students must vacate their rooms at the end of each academic year and hand over the rooms to 
the hostel in charge. 

xix. The student will be required to sign the receipt of the items of furniture and fixtures to be used by 
them. They will be responsible for any damage to any furniture and fixtures or the property of the 
rooms. While leaving the room at the end of the semester, every student shall handover the charge of 
the furniture and other provisions in the room to the warden. 

xx. Students desiring to reserve their seats for the next semester must submit their applications for 
readmission in prescribed form to the warden after notification. 

xxi. If the student locks the room with private lock and leave for vacation, the warden shall have right to 
open the lock and take possession of the room. 

xxii. The final year students should vacate the hostel within 3 days after the date of completion of the final 
examination failing which the Warden will have the authority to take possession of the room and shift 
the belongings of the students in the cloak room. 

xxiii. Security of students’ belongings is their own responsibility. The students have to make sure that they 
lock the rooms properly before they leave their room. Any theft should immediately be reported to the 
Warden and Competent Authority. 

xxiv. The officials of the University have the right to inspect any hostel room at any time. 

xxv. No guest will be allowed to stay overnight in the hostel rooms. 
 
xxvi. Non-resident students are not permitted to enter the hostel without prior permission of Competent 

Authority. 

xxvii. All the visitors including non-resident students should record their details of visits in the register kept 
at the hostel reception. 

xxviii. Food will not be served in the hostel unless a student is sick and unable to move out to the dining 
room. 

xxix. The student at the time of admission will get name of the local guardian approved by his/her parents in 
the prescribed proforma. 

xxx. All cases of sickness must be reported immediately to the warden/Competent Authority. This is a joint 
responsibility of the sick student and his/her roommate and those in the adjoining rooms. Emergencies 
or accidents should also be immediately reported to Wardens and Chief Warden. 

xxxi. The University has right to change the allocation of rooms or get the rooms vacated anytime if 
exigency Demands. 

xxxii. The visiting hours of the guardian of the student will be determined and during that period only the 
guardian/local guardian can meet the student in the designated areas. 

xxxiii. The University reserves right to change any or all the rules without prior notice. 

xxxiv. Students should be punctual for meal and must be properly dressed while dining. 

xxxv. Students are neither permitted to use private electrical appliances nor would tamper with electrical 
fittings provided in the rooms. 

xxxvi. Intoxicants, Liquor, Tobacco, Explosive and/or Weapons (knife etc.) cannot be kept/stored by the 
student in the hostel premises. Burning crackers, playing with colors and celebration of birthday party 
etc. is prohibited within the hostel premises. 

xxxvii. Student should have smart bearing when going out of the hostel always using dress befitting the 
occasion and place of visit. 

xxxviii. Discussion on ladies, politics and religion is completely forbidden in the hostel, dining hall and 
cafeteria. 

xxxix. Student taking part directly/indirectly in any movement or agitation or strike in the University for any 
reason whatsoever will be punished, rusticated or expelled from the University, which in the opinion 
of the Competent Authority is subversion of the University discipline. 

xl. No visitor will be invited to take part in meeting or a function without prior permission of Competent 
Authorities. 

xli. In case student desires to stay out of the hostel for the night or leave the station, she should apply to 
the Chief Warden in writing along with recommendation of local guardian or parents and obtain 
necessary permission. 

xlii. No other person(s) will be allowed to enter the premises of the hostel without the permission of the 
warden except the local guardian and the parents during the prescribed time. The meeting will only 
take place in the lobby of the hostel. 

xliii. No student will be permitted to enter the hostel after the roll call unless she produces a written 
permission obtained from the warden, which will be on the basis of their quest made either by the local 
guardian or parent. 

xliv. Even during prescribed time for visit, the concerned visitors have to make entry in the register kept for 
the same. 
