“DISCIPLINE ORDINANCES” 
DIT UNIVERSITY, DEHRADUN  

 
[Applicable from the Academic Session 2017-18] 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

  



 

 
 

DISCIPLINE ORDINANCES-2013 

In the exercise of powers conferred by and in discharge of duties assigned under 
the relevant provision(s) of the Act and the Statues of the University, the 
Academic Council hereby frames the following Ordinances, namely: 

PRELIMINARY 

Amendment to the Discipline Ordinances 2013* of DIT University. These 
Ordinances are applicable to the Full-Time students (including working 
professionals) of all programs Under-Graduate, Post Graduate, Integrated 
Dual Degree, Lateral Entry and Doctoral Programs. 

b. A participant of the programme is a student who is duly admitted to the 
University and who has registered himself/herself for a programme of study 
and attends the same. 

c. Ordinances shall come into force with effect from the commencement of the 
Academic Session 2013-14. The First Amendment to the Discipline 
Ordinances 2013 shall come into force with effect from the commencement 
of the Academic Session 2017-18*. 

th
(* - amended by the Board of Governors at its 5  meeting held on 27.11.2017) 

1. DISCIPLINE RULES TO BE OBSERVED BY THE STUDENTS 
ADMITTED 

1.1 All the students admitted in the University will have to observe and abide by 
the discipline rules prescribed by the University and he/she will submit to 
the disciplinary jurisdiction of the Vice Chancellor and other competent 
officers or authorities or bodies of the University as the case may be and in 
this respect he/she has to submit the declaration in the Proforma attached 
herewith as Annexure I. 

1.2 The student will also be required to give an undertaking in the Proforma 
attached herewith as Annexure-II to be filled up and signed by the 
candidate and his parent/guardian to the effect that he/she is aware of the 
University’s Anti-Ragging Policies and the punishment to which he/she 
shall be liable, if found guilty of Ragging. 

2. DISCIPLINE RULES TO BE OBSERVED BY THE STUDENTS 
WITHIN OR OUTSIDE THE CAMPUS OF THE UNIVERSITY 

2.1 Every student must carry his/her Identity Card which should be produced 
when demanded. 


2.2 It is mandatory for the students to attend the classes, sessions, co-curricular 
and extra-curricular activities etc. on all working days from the start to the 
end of the term/semester/trimester. Absence due to illness or unavoidable 
circumstances shall be considered only if the application is supported with 
medical certificate in case of illness and/or leave application form from the 
parent is submitted to the competent Authority. 

2.3 Students are expected to behave in a responsible manner and abstain from 
chatting amongst themselves while the class is in progress. 

2.4 Students are expected to be polite individually or in groups and show respect 
to the faculty/ staff of the University. 

2.5 Any indiscipline and misbehavior in class or in the Campus or in the 
University/Public Transport or even outside the Campus would warrant 
disciplinary action against the student(s). 

2.6 Any action of any individual, group or a wing, which amounts to 
interference in the regular administration of University, is prohibited. 
Disciplinary actions will be initiated against such student(s). 

2.7 Causing dis-figuration or damage to the property of the University or 
belongings of faculty/staff members or students is prohibited. 

2.8 No student shall indulge in any activity that might be illegal or may lead to 
disorderliness. 

2.9 No student shall be in possession of liquor, drugs or any intoxicating 
materials, nor would consume such things. 

2.10 Smoking cigarettes/ chewing pan or tobacco or gutkha is strictly prohibited. 

2.11 Indecent behavior in any form will not be tolerated. 

2.12 Use of mobile phone is strictly prohibited in the classrooms, corridors, or 
anywhere in the Academic and Administrative area. 

2.13 Activities like video shooting, photography, playing musical instruments 
and listening to radio, tape recorder loudly, etc. are prohibited on the 
Campus except with the permission of the Competent Authority. 

2.14 The students are expected to be in the class rooms/laboratories or any place 
of study on time prior to the commencement of the study. 

2.15 Use of helmet is compulsory for everyone who rides a two-wheeler to and 
from the Campus. Violation of traffic rules by any one jeopardizing orderly 
traffic and safe journey on the road is prohibited and is subject to 
disciplinary action. 
  
2.16 On uniform-days, every student will wear uniform with decent shoes. No 
students will be permitted to attend classes without proper uniform. First 
year students will wear proper uniform on all working days. On non-uniform 
days students will wear decent clothes and shoes. Multi-pocket jeans, 
Caprees, Low waist pants, slogan printed T-Shirt and slippers are not 
permitted in the Campus. 

2.17 Any form of ragging anywhere within the campus, outside or while traveling 
is strictly prohibited. 

2.18 Any kind of misuse of Internet, Intranet or computer software, Mobile etc. is 
strictly prohibited. 

2.19 Disobeying any instructions issued by the Competent Authorities will be 
considered as an act of indiscipline. 

2.20 Possession or use of firearms, fireworks, explosives, weapons, or items 
deemed to be weapons of any description are strictly prohibited. 

2.21 Gambling and betting (offline or online) for money or other items of value 
on University premises, including but not limited to, playing cards, chain 
business (Multi Level Marketing) or other games of chance or skill for 
money or other items of value. 

2.22 Failure to comply with directions of University officials or disorderly 
abusive conduct towards University officials discharging their duties. 

2.23 Misuse of fire safety equipment, setting fires, failure to evacuate the 
building during a fire alarm or violation of any fire safety policy are strictly 
prohibited. 

2.24 Misuse of social networking sites is prohibited. 

2.25 Any offensive or derogatory conduct or comments by the students reflecting 
bias towards gender/caste/creed/region/color, etc. or which creates sense of 
intimidation, harassment or which represents violation of the rights or 
opportunities of the victim(s) will be dealt with severely. 

2.26 Any students who makes unwelcome sexual advances or any other 
unwelcome verbal or written communication with sexual connotation will be 
liable for strict punishment. 

2.27 The use of phone, email or any other method designed to transmit messages 
or materials of an explicit sexual nature/objectionable communication is 
considered as criminal offence and will be dealt with severely. 

2.28 Participation in political activities by any student is strictly prohibited. 

2.29 The items which are not covered above and which the Competent 
Authorities considers as an act of indiscipline under these Ordinances. 

3. DISCIPLINE RULES TO BE OBSERVED IN THE HOSTELS OF 
THE UNIVERSITY OR THE HOSTELS MANAGED BY THE 
UNIVERSITY 

3.1 In the hostel the students are expected to conduct themselves in a manner, 
which will not cause offence and inconvenience to other hostelers. 

3.2 The students must observe complete discipline inside the hostel premises 
and see that no wasteful, improper and destructive use is made of amenities 
such as water, electricity, furniture, etc. The students shall be responsible for 
any damage done in the building or any other articles in the hostel, and will 
be required to pay for the damages as decided by the Competent Authority. 

3.3 Each student must ensure that his/her action does not lead to breach of 
privacy or cause inconvenience to other residents of the hostel. 

3.4 The student must observe decent behavior in such a way that it will not 
cause disturbance of any kind to his/her fellow residents. 

3.5 No hostelers are permitted to keep any motorized vehicle on campus or 
anywhere in Dehradun. 

3.6 Students shall be in the Campus/Hostel premises by the designated time as 
decided by the competent authority. 

3.7 No waste paper or rubbish would be thrown around/in the hostel. When the 
student(s) goes out of the room, he/she must ensure that the lights are 
switched off. 

3.8 A student shall only occupy the room when seat is allotted to him/ her in the 
hostel and shall not change the same without permission. 

3.9 Hostel student shall not stay overnight out of the hostel without the 
permission of official designated by the Competent Authorities. Permission 
for such requirement shall be sought in writing, indicating the address with 
the telephone number at which the student will be spending night. 

3.10 Under no circumstances, the boys and girls are permitted to enter the rooms 
of each other. 

3.11 Ragging in the hostel and on the Campus is strictly prohibited. Any student 
indulging in this will be liable to be punished as prescribed against Ragging. 

3.12 Gambling, possession and usage of alcoholic drink and narcotics anywhere 
within the hostel premises or Campus is strictly prohibited. This is in 
accordance with the legal requirements of the state, and breach of this clause 
under state laws will be dealt with according to law. 

3.13 No celebrations or social gatherings shall be held in the hostel premises 
without the prior permission of the Competent Authorities. 

3.14 Silence period must be observed from 10.30 pm to 6.00 am by hostelers. 

3.15 All complaints about the staff working in the hostel shall be made to the 
warden and under no circumstances the students will abuse or assault the 
staff. 

4. GENERAL RULES FOR THE HOSTEL 
4.1 Hostel seat is not a right. It is a privilege which demands disciplined 

behavior from the inmates at all times. The hostelers must attend all classes 
and appear in all tests and exams. They must abide by all hostel rules and 
Ordinances in letter and spirit. 

4.2 Hostel seats are available in limited numbers and therefore the same will be 
allotted on the basis of First-Come-First-Served and merit* to first 
year/second year lateral entry students and continuing students respectively. 

th
(* - amended by the Board of Governors at its 5  meeting held on 27.11.2017) 

4.3 Hostel accommodation will be made available to a student only for the 
stipulated actual duration of the course. Students must vacate their rooms at 
the end of each academic year and hand over the rooms to the hostel in 
charge. 

4.4 The student will be required to sign the receipt of the items of furniture and 
fixtures to be used by them. They will be responsible for any damage to any 
furniture and fixtures or the property of the rooms. While leaving the room 
at the end of the semester, every student shall handover the charge of the 
furniture and other provisions in the room to the warden. 

4.5 Students desiring to reserve their seats for the next semester must submit 
their applications for readmission in prescribed form to the warden after 
notification. 

4.6 If the student locks the room with private lock and leave for vacation, the 
warden shall have right to open the lock and take possession of the room. 

4.7 The final year students should vacate the hostel within 3 days after the date 
of completion of the final examination failing which the Warden will have 
the authority to take possession of the room and shift the belongings of the 
students in the cloak room. 

4.8 Security of students’ belongings is their own responsibility. The students 
have to make sure that they lock the rooms properly before they leave their 
room. Any theft should immediately be reported to the Warden and 
Competent Authority. 

4.9 The officials of the University have the right to inspect any hostel room at 
any time. 

4.10 No guest will be allowed to stay overnight in the hostel rooms. 

4.11 Non-resident students are not permitted to enter the hostel without prior 
permission of Competent Authority. 

4.12 All the visitors including non-resident students should record their details of 
visits in the register kept at the hostel reception. 

4.13 Food will not be served in the hostel unless a student is sick and unable to 
move out to the dining room. 

4.14 The student at the time of admission will get name of the local guardian 
approved by his/her parents in the prescribed proforma. 

4.15 All cases of sickness must be reported immediately to the 
warden/Competent Authority. This is a joint responsibility of the sick 
student and his/her roommate and those in the adjoining rooms. 
Emergencies or accidents should also be immediately reported to Wardens 
and Chief Warden. 

4.16 The University has right to change the allocation of rooms or get the rooms 
vacated anytime if exigency Demands. 

4.17 The visiting hours of the guardian of the student will be determined and 
during that period only the guardian/local guardian can meet the student in 
the designated areas. 

4.18 The University reserves right to change any or all the rules without prior 
notice. 

4.19 Students should be punctual for meal and must be properly dressed while 
dining. 

4.20 Students are neither permitted to use private electrical appliances nor would 
tamper with electrical fittings provided in the rooms. 

4.21 Intoxicants, Liquor, Tobacco, Explosive and/or Weapons (knife etc.) cannot 
be kept/stored by the student in the hostel premises. Burning crackers, 
playing with colors and celebration of birthday party etc. is prohibited 
within the hostel premises. 

4.22 Student should have smart bearing when going out of the hostel always 
using dress befitting the occasion and place of visit. 

4.23 Discussion on ladies, politics and religion is completely forbidden in the 
hostel, dining hall and cafeteria. 

4.24 Student taking part directly/indirectly in any movement or agitation or strike 
in the University for any reason whatsoever will be punished, rusticated or 
  
expelled from the University, which in the opinion of the Competent 
Authority is subversion of the University discipline. 

5. ADDITIONAL HOSTEL RULES FOR THE GIRLS 
5.1 No visitor will be invited to take part in meeting or a function without prior 

permission of Competent Authorities. 

5.2 In case student desires to stay out of the hostel for the night or leave the 
station, she should apply to the Chief Warden in writing along with 
recommendation of local guardian or parents and obtain necessary 
permission. 

5.3 No other person(s) will be allowed to enter the premises of the hostel 
without the permission of the warden except the local guardian and the 
parents during the prescribed time. The meeting will only take place in the 
lobby of the hostel. 

5.4 No student will be permitted to enter the hostel after the roll call unless she 
produces a written permission obtained from the warden, which will be on 
the basis of there quest made either by the local guardian or parent. 

5.5 Even during prescribed time for visit, the concerned visitors have to make 
entry in the register kept for the same. 


6. PROCEDURE TO DEAL WITH SEXUAL HARASSMENT 
6.1 “Sexual Harassment” includes any unwelcome sexually determined 

behaviour, whether directly or by implication and includes physical contact 
and advances, a demand or request for sexual favors, sexually-coloured 
remarks, showing pornography or any other unwelcome physical, verbal or 
non-verbal conduct of sexual nature. Besides it includes the following: 

6.1.1 Unwelcome sexual advances requests for sexual favors, and verbal or 
physical conduct of a sexual nature are made, either implicitly or 
explicitly, academic performance, extracurricular activities, or 
entitlement to services opportunities at the University. 

6.1.2 When unwelcome sexual advances, and verbal, non-verbal and/or 
physical conduct such as loaded comments, remarks or jokes, letters, 
phone calls or e-mail, gestures, exhibition of pornography, lurid stares, 
physical contact, stalking, sounds or display of a derogatory nature 
have the purpose and/or effect of interfering with an individual’s 
performance or of creating and intimidating, hostile, or offensive 
environment. 

6.1.3 When deprecatory comments, conduct or any such behaviour is based 
on the gender identity/sexual orientation of the person and/or when the  classroom or other public forum of the University is used to
denigrate/discriminate against a person or create a hostile environment 
on the basis of a person’s gender identity/sexual orientation. 

6.2 Establishment of Women Welfare Committee 

6.2.1 The Vice-chancellor shall constitute Women Welfare Committee to 
check the menace of sexual harassment & violence against women at 
their workplace. The qualifications, tenure, terms and conditions of the 
chairperson and members of the committee shall be determined by the 
Vice-chancellor. The chairperson of the committee shall be a woman 
appointed by the Vice-Chancellor from the Senior Professors of the 
University. 

6.2.2 This committee will deal with all the cases of sexual harassment 
elaborated in the clause 6.1 and the recommendation of the committee 
on punishment shall be forwarded to the Vice Chancellor, whose 
decision shall be final. 

6.2.3 Punishment/disciplinary action for sexual harassment may be in form 
of following:  

 Warning 

 Written apology 

 Bond of good behavior 

 Debarring entry into a hostel/campus 

 Suspension for a specified period of time 

 Withholding results 

 Debarring from exams 

 Debarring from holding posts 

 Expulsion  

 Denial of admission 

 Declaring the harasser as “persona non gratia” for a stipulated 
period of time 

 Any other punishment as may be warranted by the case. 

7. PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED FOR IMPOSING PENALTIES 
7.1 For disobeying any disciplinary rules, the Competent Authority will take 

disciplinary action against the student concerned. There shall be separate 
procedure for imposing minor penalty and major penalty. The following act 
of indiscipline on the part of the student shall be subjected to the major 
penalties: 

i. Damaging the property (movable or immovable) of the University. 

ii. Indulging in violence within or outside the Campus including instigating 
the violence. 

iii. Indulging himself/herself in consuming alcoholic beverages and criminal 
acts like consuming drugs, gambling within or outside the Campus 
including instigating the other students for such action. 

iv. Ragging within or outside the Campus. 

v. Any act which deteriorate the overall academic ambiance in the Campus. 

vi. Theft of University property or the property of the other students, staff or 
any other person on the Campus. 

vii. Any other acts not covered above and which the Competent Authority 
deems as gross misconduct. 

8. PROCEDURE FOR IMPOSING MAJOR PENALTIES 
8.1 For imposing the major penalty as defined above, the following procedure 

will be followed: 

i. As soon as the information about an act of indiscipline is brought to the 
notice of the Competent Authority, the student concerned will be 
suspended and shall not be allowed to attend the classes/ practical or any 
other academic and extra-curricular activities. 

ii. The Vice Chancellor will refer the case to Proctorial Board which shall 
submit its report within four days after inquiring the details by inviting 
student(s), parent(s) and will record the statements. They will also 
examine the other witnesses and record their statement. The Proctorial 
Board will also examine the circumstantial evidences. On the basis of 
the report of the Proctorial Board, if the Vice Chancellor feels that the 
charges leveled against the student fall under the category of major 
penalty then the case shall be referred to the University Disciplinary 
Committee constituted by the Vice Chancellor. The Board’s 
recommendations shall be submitted to the Vice Chancellor for his final 
decision. The Proctorial Board will ensure giving of opportunities to the 
accused for their explanation and defense. 

9. THE MAJOR PENALTY INCLUDES FOLLOWING 
i. In case of criminal act or moral turpitude, the initiation of police action 

against the student(s). 

ii. Prohibiting the student concerned from appearing in the course/classes 
or various Examinations. 

iii. Suspension of the student(s) for a semester or more. 

iv. Rustication from the University for a specified period. 

v. Expulsion from the University. 

vi. Any other penalty. 

vii. If the individuals committing or abetting ‘Ragging’ are not identified, 
collective punishment could be executed to act as a deterrent punishment 
and to ensure collective pressure on potential ‘Raggers’. In case the 
student is involved in any kind of ragging and is punished, the same 
shall be mentioned in his/her Character Certificate. 

10. THE MINOR PENALTY INCLUDES FOLLOWING 
For any other act of indiscipline not covered above, the Competent 
Authority will take action against the student concerned and impose minor 
penalty after hearing the student concerned and also other persons directly or 
indirectly involved. 

11. THE NATURE OF MINOR PENALTIES WHICH CAN BE IMPOSED 
i. Warning 

ii. Giving special assignments 

iii. Imposing fine 

iv. Putting the student on conduct probation for appropriate period of time 

v. Prohibiting the student from appearing in limited number of courses in 
test/exams 

vi. Rusticating student for attending classes for a period not more than one 
week 

vii. Community service for specific hours 

viii. Restitution i.e. repair or replacement of property damaged by the student 

ix. Any other appropriate penalty. 

12. RAGGING 
Any disorderly conduct whether by spoken words or written or by an act 
which has the effect of teasing, or handling with rudeness any other student, in rowdy or undisciplined activities which causes or is likely to cause annoyance, hardship or psychological harm or to raise fear or apprehension
thereof in a fresher or a junior student or asking the students to do any act or 
perform something which such student will not do in the ordinary course 
and which has the effect of causing or generating a sense of shame or 
embarrassment so as to adversely affect the physique or psyche of a fresher 
or a junior student. 

13. CONSTITUTION OF ANTI-RAGGING BODIES 
13.1 Anti-Ragging Committee 

The Anti-Ragging Committee shall be headed by the Vice Chancellor and 
shall consist of representatives of faculty members, parents, students 
belonging to the freshers’ category as well as seniors and non-teaching staff. 
It shall monitor the anti-ragging activities in the institution, consider the 
recommendations of the Anti-Ragging Squad and take appropriate 
decisions, including spelling out suitable punishments to the found guilty. 

13.2 Anti-Ragging Squad 
The Anti-Ragging Squad shall be nominated by the Vice Chancellor with 
such representation as considered necessary and shall consist of members 
belonging to the various sections of the campus community. The Squad shall 
have vigil, oversight and patrolling functions. It shall be kept mobile, alert 
and active at all times and shall be empowered to inspect places of potential 
ragging and make surprise raids on hostels and other host posts. The Squad 
shall investigate incidents of ragging and make recommendations to the 
Anti-Ragging Committee and shall work under the overall guidance of the 
said Committee. 

13.3 Anti-Ragging Students Squad 
Anti-Ragging students Squad shall be nominated by Dean (SW), Chief 
Warden and Proctorial Board and shall consist of the student members 
belonging to the senior batches. These students shall keep constant vigil and 
will be moving around premises and nearby areas of university. They will 
also be involved in conduct of counseling wherever required and will 
facilitate activities like “Batch Meet”, “Freshers' Party” for making 
Senior-Junior interaction smooth and positive. They will be making 
particularly senior students aware of the dehumanizing effect of ragging, 
and the approach of the university towards those indulging in ragging. In 
case of likelihood of any unwanted activity they will report to competent 
authority at the earliest. 

13.4 Mentoring Cell 
Mentoring Cell comprises Vice Chancellor, Pro-Vice Chancellor, all 
Directors, Heads of Departments, Dean (SW), Chief Proctor, Proctorial 
Board and Student Counselor. The cell is assigned responsibility of conduct 
of orientation programme and counseling sessions. This cell shall also  review the efforts made by the university to publicize Anti-Ragging
measures, cross-verify and receipt of undertakings from students and their 
parents/guardians every year. It shall act as prime mover to facilitate 
implementation of Anti-Ragging measures. 

14. PUNISHMENT FOR RAGGING DEPENDING UPON THE 
GRAVITY OF THE OFFENCE  
i. Lodging FIR against offender. 

ii. Rigorous Imprisonment for up to 3 years (under the court of law). 

iii. Fine up to Rs. 2,50,000 (up to Rs 2.5 lakh) 

iv. Rustication from the University for varying periods. 

v. Expulsion from the University and consequent debarring. 

vi. Cancellation of Admission. 

vii. Suspension from attending classes. 

viii. Withholding/withdrawing of scholarship/fellowship and other benefits. 

ix. Debarring from appearing for any test/examination/placement activities 
organized by the University. 

x. Withholding of results. 

xi. Debarring from representing the University in any National or 
International meet, tournament and festival. 

xii. Suspension / Expulsion from the hostel. 

15. DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS 
Disciplinary proceedings are conducted based on the nature of violation. The 
following Disciplinary Committees are set up for smooth functioning of DIT 
University. 

A. Proctorial Board 
a. Chief Proctor - Chairman 

b. Proctors representing various Faculties/Departments 

Proctorial Board shall serve as a standing disciplinary committee. All 
matters of indiscipline will be examined and decide whether to investigate 
on its own or refer to other appropriate Discipline Committees in place. In 
case the matter is disposed off by the Proctorial Board itself the Board 
recommendations would be submitted to the Vice Chancellor for his 
decision. 



B. Departmental Discipline Committee 
a. Head of the Department (Concerned Department) - Chairman 

b. Two Senior Faculty (Concerned Department) 

c. Class Coordinator (s) concerned 

d. Associate Dean, Student Welfare 

e. Faculty/Department Proctor (if any) 

It deals with the disciplinary issues related to general conduct of students 
in the class rooms, laboratories and departmental premises. If the 
violations are more serious in nature, this committee will forward the 
matter to the Proctorial Board. 

C. Hostel Discipline Committee: 
a. Chief Warden - Chairman 

b. Associate Dean Students Welfare 

c. Two Wardens (one from the concerned hostel) 

It deals with the minor disciplinary issues related to the hostel affairs. 

D. University Discipline Committee: 
a. Pro Vice Chancellor* - Chairman 

b. Dean, Student Welfare 

c. Chief Proctor 

d. Chief Warden 

e. Two Senior Faculty Members (including one Head of the 
Department of the concerned Department) to be appointed by the 
Vice Chancellor. 

f. Registrar – Member Secretary 

The Committee shall deal with all major acts of indiscipline referred by 
Proctorial Board. 

th
(* - amended by the Board of Governors at its 5  meeting held on 27.11.2017) 

16. HONOR CODE FOR STUDENTS 
Honor code for students of DIT University is as under: 

 I shall uphold the honour and image of DIT University at all times. 

 I shall never use any unfair means or involve in plagiarism. 




 I shall be punctual and always come well prepared for the class. I shall 
be attentive in the class and never indulge in daydreaming and boasting. 

 I shall not hesitate to give my views/new ideas freely. 

 I shall display selflessness, team spirit and cooperation. 

 I shall be honest and truthful in all dealings. 

 I shall never involve/indulge in sycophancy and manipulation. 

 I shall be respectful and obedient to our teachers and other staff. 

 I shall maintain highest standards of discipline and social grace at all 
times. 

 I shall be making continual endeavor for self improvement by pursuing 
self learning. 

 I shall shun all parochial tendencies based on caste, religion, race and 
gender. 

  

 

CODE OF CONDUCT  

TO BE OBSERVED DURING THE EXAMINATIONS BY THE 

STUDENTS OF  

DIT UNIVERSITY, DEHRADUN-2013 

 

The students of DIT University are to adhere to following instructions during the 

conduct of the Examination: 

i. Students should report half an hour before commencement of examination for 

the first examination paper and 15 minutes before subsequently. 

ii. Students arriving half an hour after commencement of the examination shall 

not be permitted to appear in the examination. 

iii. Students reporting late and permitted to appear in examination shall not be 

given any extra time. 

iv. Students must be seated as per the seating plan displayed. 

v. Students must report for examination in proper university uniform. 

vi. They must bring admit card with pasted photograph as well as Identity Card. 

vii. They must bring blue/black ball pen, pencil for bubbling the OMR Sheet, non-

programmable calculator and necessary drawing instruments, etc. 

viii. Mobile phones, pager, programmable calculators and tablets, Smart 

Watches or any other electronic gadgets* are strictly prohibited in the 

Examination Hall. Use or possession of any of these items shall be treated as 

use of unfair means. Besides, these items shall be seized by COE. 

ix. No written material in any form, as chits, printed or hand written pages are 

permitted in the examination hall. 

x. Writing on palm, other body parts, clothes, desks, calculator instrument box 

and on admit card, etc shall be treated as use of unfair means. 

xi. Students must write their full roll number on their question papers and 

nothing else. Exchange of question papers shall be treated as use of unfair 

means. 

xii. Students must not bring books/notes, mobile phone and other expensive 

items on the day of examination. In case they bring any such items the same 

will be deposited in the space earmarked for the same, however students will 

remain responsible for the safety of their belongings. 

xiii. Complete silence must be observed during examination. Talking to other 

students, peeping into the answer sheets nearby and exposing of their answer 

sheets to facilitate copying by others shall be viewed as use of unfair means. 

xiv. Students are not permitted to leave examination hall during the initial stipulated 

period at the commencement of the examination and 15 minutes before expiry 

of examination period. 

xv. No one shall be allowed to write after prescribed time is over. 

xvi. Smoking, chewing of tobacco and use of the intoxicants is strictly prohibited 

in the examination hall. 

xvii. Students must take due care while filling the OMR Sheet. In particular the 

entries of roll number must be double checked. 

xviii. Making wrong entry in roll number column is a serious offense and shall 

attract severe punishment. 

xix. Students are advised to read carefully all the instructions given on Question 

Paper, Admit Card and on the top page of the answer sheet. 

xx. Exchanging pen, pencil, rubber, calculator or any other material in the 

examination hall is strictly prohibited. 

xxi. Leave two line space after completion of answer of each question or part there 

of. 

xxii. Question number or a part there of should be clearly mentioned in the left 

margin before answering the same. 

xxiii. Rough work carried out must be crossed out clearly. 

xxiv. Students are not allowed to leave examination hall without handing over 

answer books to the invigilators. 

xxv. During the period of examinations students are not permitted to take out 

question papers and answer sheets. 

xxvi. Students are not allowed to enter any signs or marks or making irrelevant 

requests or entering their names/roll number in any form anywhere in the 

answer book. The same would be construed as unfair practice liable for 

disciplinary action. 

 
