DIT UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC ORDINANCE, 2024 
(Effective from AY 2023-2024) 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

DIT University 
Mussoorie Diversion Road, Makkawala, Dehradun, Uttarakhand 248009 

DEFINITIONS 
 

1. GENERAL 
 

2. PROGRAM OF STUDY 
2.1 Normal Duration of the Programs 
2.2  Program Structure 
2.3 Credit and Course Requirements to Complete the Different Degree 

Program 
 

3. MINOR PROGRAM 
3.1 Declaring a Minor 
3.2 Eligibility 
3.3 Minor Program Structure 
3.4 Awarding the Minor Certificate 
 

4. ADMISSIONS 
4.1 Re-Admission 
4.2 Inter University Transfer & Lateral Admissions 
4.3 Student Exchange Programs 
 

5. ALLOTMENT OF STUDENT’S IDENTIFICATION NUMBER 
 

6. REGISTRATION 
6.1 Registration Process 
6.2 Late Registration 
6.3 Registration for courses during Summer Term 
6.4 Credit Limit for registration in a given Semester/ Trimester/Summer 

Term 
6.5 Cancellation of Registration 
6.6 Temporary Withdrawal Procedure 
 

7. PROGRAM FEE 
 

8. ATTENDANCE 
 

9. TEACHING AND EVALUATION 
9.1 Course Instructor/Coordinator and roles 
 

10. EVALUATION AND GRADING 
10.1 Continuous Evaluation 
10.2 OPEN-BOOK Evaluation 
10.3 Grading System 
10.4 Semester/Trimester   and   Cumulative   Grade   Point Average 

(TGPA/SGPA / CGPA) 
10.5 Progression of a Student in a Degree Program (Admission to Graduation) 
10.6 Restriction of Access to courses 
 

11. ACADEMIC PROGRESSION AND COUNSELLING BOARD (APCB) 
 

12. ACADEMIC FLEXIBILITY: CHANGE OF PROGRAM  
12.1 Eligibility for program change 
13. GRADUATION 
 

14. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
14.1 The Controller of examination (CoE) Responsibilities 
14.2 Student Responsibilities 
 

15. CANCELLATION OF ADMISSION OR DISCONTINUATION FROM 
THE PROGRAM 
 

16. ADDITIONAL CLAUSES FOR Ph.D. PROGRAM 
16.1 Admission and Eligibility for Ph.D. Program 
16.2 Pre-Ph.D. Course Work Registration 
16.3  Research Registration 
16.4 Constitution of the Research Advisory Committee (RAC) 
16.5 Research Supervisor/Co-Research Supervisor 
16.6 Duration of the Research Program 
16.7 Pre-Submission Presentation and Open Seminar 
16.8 Submission of Thesis 
16.9 Evaluation of the Thesis 
16.10 Revision and Resubmission of Thesis 
16.11 Viva-Voce Examination 
16.12 Award of Degree 
16.13 Depository With UGC 
16.14 Doubt or Ambiguity 

 

ACADEMIC ORDINANCES, 2024 
 

In the exercise of powers conferred by and in discharge of duties assigned under 
the relevant provision(s) of the Act, the Statutes and the Rules of the University, 
the Academic Council, dated 30th April 2024 hereby, frames the New Academic 
Ordinances approved by BOG. This ordinance comes into effect from Academic 
Year 2023-24. 
 
In addition to the clauses mentioned in this regulation, certain addition, deletion, 
or modification may apply to UG/PG/Ph.D. program. In the discipline of 
Pharmacy, Architecture, Nursing, and Health Professions etc. wherever the 
changes are to be incorporated they will be clearly mentioned in the Program 
Catalog, with reference to the main clause of the ordinance which is being 
modified.  
 

DEFINITIONS 
 
Definitions of various terms used in the Ordinances, unless the context 
otherwise requires, are given below: 

 
a) A cademic Council The Academic Council of the University 
b)  The period of Academic Activities (Normally July / August to June 

Academic Session 
of the subsequent year). 

c) A ct The DIT University Act, 2012. 
d) B OG The Board of Governors of the University. 
e) B OM The Board of Management of the University. 
f) B OE The Board of Examinations of the University. 

g) B OR The Board of Research of the University 
h)  The Board of Studies of the various Schools / Departments of the 

BOS 
University. 

i)  A course designed to help students to transition from one level of 
Bridge Course 

education to another. 

j)  The Chairman/Chairperson of the various Statutory Bodies of the 
Chairman/Chairperson 

University. 
k)  The student’s representative of a specific section of the program of 

Class Representative 
the University. 

l) C OA The Council of Architecture. 
m) C OE The   Controller   of   Examinations   of   the University. 
n)  A Course has specified syllabus and credits for Semester/Trimester 

Course 
long duration. 

o)  Course Coordinator to the course is one of the Course Instructors 
Course Coordinator responsible for uniformity of Teaching and Assessment across 

different sections. 
p)  Faculty member assigned to teach a particular course in a given 

Course Instructor 
Semester/Trimester by the concerned department. 

q)  The    Dean    of    the    concerned    School Functional Dean of the 
Dean 

University. 
r) D ean (AA) The    Dean    Academic    Affairs    of    the University. 
s)  A Structured Program having specified requirements in terms of 

Degree Program 
Courses and Credits. 

t) D ean R&C Dean Research and Consultancy of the University. 

u) D ean (SW) The   Dean   of   Students   Welfare   of   the University 


v) Th
H 

e Head of the respective Department / Centre / Unit of the 
OD 

University. 
w) I NC Indian Nursing Council. 
x)  Primary area of study chosen by students involving comprehensive 

Major Program  
and in-depth curriculum  

y)  Secondary area of study involving focused curriculum which 
Minor Program 

provides Foundational Knowledge or Specialization. 

z)  Named courses are one which are mandatory to register in given 
Named Courses 

semester. 
aa) N CAHP National Commission for Allied and Healthcare Professions. 

bb)  A structured outline of sequence and selection of courses, a student 
Normal Plan of Study 

takes to complete the degree program within a stipulated time frame. 

cc) P CI The Pharmacy Council of India. 
dd)  An official yearly publication of the University that provides 

Program Catalog comprehensive information about the Academic Programs, Courses, 
Policies and Regulations. 

ee)  A Senior Faculty member well versed with the functioning of the 
Program Coordinator 

department and the Program 
ff) R egistrar The Registrar of the University. 
gg) S tatues The Statues of the DIT University. 
hh) S  tudent A student pursuing an academic program at DIT University. 
ii) U GC The University Grants Commission 
jj) U niversity DIT University, Dehradun 
kk) V C The Vice Chancellor of the University. 

 

1. GENERAL 
 
 

DIT University offers Degree Programs at Diploma, UG, PG & Ph.D. levels in 
the areas of Engineering, Architecture, Design, Pharmacy, Nursing, Management, 
Physical Sciences, Humanities, Nursing and Healthcare Professions. The Medium 
of instruction as well as examinations shall be in English in all the programs 
offered by the University   

 
However, the programs offered in the area of Pharmacy, Architecture, Nursing 
and Healthcare Professions may have some additional conditions as required by 
the regulations of respective Regulatory Bodies/Councils. These details will be 
given in the program catalog.  
 
The clauses enumerated in this Ordinance are applicable to the students admitted 
DIT University in the Academic Year 2023-24 and later.  Further, the ordinance 
is also applicable to the students admitted in the earlier academic years but will be 
graduating in the academic year 2024-25 or later, with an additional clause stated 
below. 
 
In order to ensure that the currently enrolled students (admitted prior to Academic 
year 2024-25) are not adversely impacted due to some of the provisions of this 
ordinance, the Academic Council may at appropriate stages consider and approve 
certain modifications or alter some of the clauses of this ordinance so that such 
students may graduate without any delay from their normal plan of study.  
 

2. PROGRAMS OF STUDY 
 
All operations of programs shall be specified in terms of minimum requirements 
on Credits and Courses to be completed by each student, depending on the degree 
program in which the student is admitted. Each Academic Year will comprise of 
two semesters (Semester I and Semester II) and one summer term. In the case of 
MBA program, the academic year will have 3 Trimesters (Trimester I, Trimester 
II and Trimester III) and a summer term.  

 

2.1 Normal Duration of the Programs 
 

The normal duration of various programs at Diploma/UG/PG level shall be 
as follows: 

 
Normal 

Level Program 
Duration (N) 

B.Arch. 5 Years 

B.Tech. / B.Des./B.Pharm./B.A.(Hons.) /B.Sc.(Hons.) 4 Years 

 B.Sc. / B.A. / BCA 3 Years 

UG B.Sc.(Nursing), BSc (Optometry), BSc (Operation Theater), 
4 Years 

BSc. (Medical Lab Technician) 

Bachelors of Physiotherapy 4.5 Years 

PG MCA / M.Tech. / M.Des./ MA / M.Plan / MBA / MSc/ MCA 2 Years 

 
 
 

While the normal duration given in the above table, it should be noted that few 
students may need extra time to complete the degree, due to reasons such as slow 
learners, break in study due to medical reasons etc.  In such cases, the student may 
be allowed a maximum of 2 additional years to complete the degree. In 
exceptional cases, the Vice Chancellor (as Chairman of Academic council) may 
allow one or more additional years (in addition to N+2) for completion of the 
degree.    

  
The requirements for the completion of each degree program shall be specified in 
terms of the minimum number of Courses and Credits. These shall be approved 
by the Academic Council as and when new programs are introduced, and may be 
modified from time to time, by the Academic council. The details of the minimum 
number of courses and credits required in each of the degree programs will be 
made available in the Program Catalog which shall be published every year. 
 
2.2  Program Structure: 

 

Each degree program is structured in terms of certain modules, called courses,  to 
be completed by the student over a sequence of semesters/Trimesters. A course is 
usually of one semester/trimester duration. The courses offered by the university 
shall be categorized under different baskets, such as Discipline Core Courses, 
Discipline Elective Courses, Free Electives, Value Added Courses, etc. Typically, 
courses may vary from 2 to 5 credits, while provision exists to introduce courses of 1 credit also. Certain courses such as Internship, Capstone Project, Seminar,
Minor Projects etc. may have credits ranging between 2 to 18 credits. Each course 
will be uniquely specified by a Course Number and a Course Title, and approved 
by the Academic council.  

 
In designing a program structure, the requirement of courses and their sequence 
shall be specified in the ‘normal Semester/Trimester wise pattern’. The student is 
expected to register and complete the courses as per the normal semester-wise 
pattern and on successful completion of all the courses specified will be eligible 
for the award of the corresponding degree. The details of registration and 
graduation requirements are given later in this ordinance.  In the semester-wise 
pattern, certain courses are mentioned by their course number and course title, and 
these courses are referred to as “Named Courses”. A student has to mandatorily 
complete all the named courses with valid grades. A student getting “F” grade in 
a named course will automatically be required to re-register in that same course 
and get a valid grade. In addition to the named courses, the degree will require the 
student to complete other courses such as Electives. 

 
2.3 Credit and Course Requirements to Complete the Different Degree 

Program is given as below: 

Program Minimum Credits Minimum courses 

B.Arch. 260 64 

B. Tech., B.Des. 160 40 

BA, BSc (Hons/Hons with Research) 160 40 

BSc Nursing 155 55 

BSc (Optometry) 243.5 48 

BSc (Operation Theater) 110 25 

BSc (Medical Lab Technician)  208 65 

B.Pharm. 212 65 

BSc. Physiotherapy 225 43 

BA, BSc, BCA 120 30 

M.Tech. 68 11 

MCA 86 21 

M.Des. UX 88 25 

M.Plan. 90 23 

MA 90 18 

M.Pharma 95 21 

MSc. 81 26 

MBA 100 34 

 
While the above table gives the minimum requirements in terms of courses and 
credits, the exact requirement for the completion of a given degree in a discipline 
may be more than the minimum specified above. These shall be approved by the 
Academic Council at the time of introducing the program for the first time, and 
may be modified by the Academic Council from time to time based on the 

recommendations of the Department and the Board of Studies. The details of the 
programs, in terms of eligibility for admission, requirements for completion of the 
degree in terms of courses and credits, normal Semester/Trimester wise offering 
of courses for the program, list of courses, evaluation scheme etc. shall be 
available in the ‘Program Catalog’ of the University which will be published 
every year. 
 

3. MINOR PROGRAM: 
 
 Apart from the degree programs mentioned above, the university also offers Minor 
Programs in different disciplines. A Minor Program offers a focused set of 
courses in a particular subject, but not as extensive as a Major Program leading to 
a degree in that field. A student registered for a degree program will be eligible 
for the issue of ‘Minor Certificate’ on completion of the requirement of the minor 
program along with major area of study. 
 
Undergraduate students may choose to pursue a minor program in specific areas. 
Minors shall allow students to acquire supplemental learning outside their major 
field and gain recognized certification in that additional area. Students shall be 
allowed to work for only one minor program along with their degree program. 
 
The details of each Minor Program, as approved by the Academic council will be 
enumerated in the Program catalog.  

3.1 Declaring a Minor: 
 

Students interested in pursuing a minor should submit their applications normally 
at the end of their first year. Notices with deadlines for application will be issued 
by the Dean, Academic Affairs.  

 
3.2 Eligibility: 

 

While all undergraduate students can choose a minor, the schools/departments 
offering the program may have additional eligibility requirements based on 
academic performance. This may include a minimum overall CGPA (Cumulative 
Grade Point Average) or specific course grades relevant to the minor. The Cross-
Campus Departmental Committee(s) for Academics shall set these criteria for 
each department offering the Minor Program. 

 
3.3 Minor Program Structure: 


Each minor program shall define a minimum number of courses and credits to be 
completed successfully for the award of the minor certificate. The program shall 
also specify Core Courses (mandatory) and Elective Courses that students can 
choose from to fulfill the requirements. Further, Students shall be permitted to use 
only one project/seminar type course to meet the elective requirement of the 
minor. The detailed structure of the minor program shall be given in the program 
catalog. 


3.4 Awarding the Minor Certificate: 

   
Upon successful completion of the minor's specific requirements, eligible students 
have to apply to the Registrar for issue of the "Minor Certificate". This certificate 
shall be awarded separately from a degree (major) certificate.   It should be noted 
that the minor certificate will not be issued automatically, but will be issued only 
in the request of the eligible students.  Such requests should be made within 6 
months of graduation.  Note that the student can graduate without a minor but 
cannot graduate without completing a major program (degree). 

 

4. ADMISSIONS 
 

Admissions to various programs of study are merit based and shall be made as per 
the eligibility criteria and process prescribed by the Academic Council and shall 
be published in the program catalog every year. 
 
 For the candidates to be eligible, the maximum gap normally permitted after 
completion of the qualifying examination shall be two years. In exceptional cases, 
where applications are received with gap of more than 2 years, such as medical 
circumstances, supported by documentary proof along with affidavits, the Vice 
Chancellor may consider and approve the admission. Such cases will be reported 
to the Board of Governors along with the reasons for the exceptions made.   
 

If there is any requirement for bridge courses, as per admission criteria, the student 
has to pass the bridge course(s) within one academic year after admission, failing 
which his / her admission shall stand cancelled. 

 
 4.1 Re-Admission 

 
When a student’s name is struck- off from the university rolls or the student is 
discontinued from the program, regardless of the reason for the same, he/she will 
have to seek re-admission to the university if he/she wishes to continue in a 
particular program of study. In all such cases, a committee appointed by Vice 
Chancellor will examine the application on a case-to-case basis, and if readmitted, 
the student shall be governed by the Academic Structure, Fee Structure, Rules and 
Regulations applicable as on date of re-admission.  

 

4.2 Inter University Transfer & Lateral Admissions:  

 

(i) The term ‘Lateral Admission’ is used when a student is admitted to a 
degree program (presently, B.Tech. or B.Pharm. program) after 
completing a diploma.   

(ii) There exist provisions for lateral transfer/migration of students from 
other Universities at second year or higher level. 

(iii) In cases where an aspirant for admission has a higher qualification than 
the minimum eligibility criteria in terms of a formal degree or courses 
completed in a recognized university system, other than mentioned in i 
and ii above), the same will be considered as ‘Admissions under 
Advanced Standing’. 

In all the above cases, applications are to be made before the start of the Academic 
year, giving details including academic performance at 10th and 10+2 level, and 
the details (full transcript) of the already completed semesters/trimesters at the 
university in which the student is on-rolls at the time of application, explanation 
of any gap years etc. The applications must be received well before the 
commencement of the new academic session in which the admission is sought. 
The applications shall be reviewed by a committee constituted by the Vice 
Chancellor.  The recommendations of the committee based on the basic eligibility 
criteria, availability of seats and overall merit of the candidates shall be forwarded 
to the Vice Chancellor for final approval. 

 

Student seeking admission through Lateral transfer/migration may be exempted 
from certain courses which he/she has already studied. A standing equivalence 
committee, under the chairmanship of Dean, Academic Affairs, shall meet at the 
time of such admission and on the basis of student’s previous transcripts, 
committee will recommend exemption from certain courses of the degree program 
in which the student is being admitted.  While the credits for the exempted courses 
will be counted ‘as deemed to be earned’ for the purpose of deciding the eligibility 
for graduation, the grades/marks of such courses will not be included in the 
calculation of SGPA/CGPA of the student.  

 
4.3 Student Exchange Programs: 

 

Under Student Exchange Program with collaborating Universities/Institutions, a 
student of the collaborating university shall be allowed to register for courses 
offered by DIT University and grades shall be awarded on satisfactory completion 
of the course, as per the grading scheme of DIT University. Similarly, a student 
of DIT University may be allowed to register in courses of other reputed 
universities, and credits earned by the student in such courses may be considered 
for deciding the eligibility requirement for award of the degree by DIT University. 
This credit transfer will be subject to permission by a specially constituted 
committee by the Vice Chancellor for the specific purpose of deciding the 
Equivalence and credit transfer.  The permission has to be obtained before the 
student registers for such courses. Assessment and Grade Conversion shall be 
considered on case-to-case basis subject to the final approval by the Vice 
Chancellor.  

 

5. Allotment of Student’s Identification Number 
 

For every admitted student, two identification numbers shall be allotted, namely 
(i) Roll Number and ii) ERP ID Number 
(i) Roll Number: This shall be of 10 characters. The 10 characters assigned shall 
be coded as below: 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 

Digits Alphabet Two digits  Alphabet  Digits 
(1-9) (A-Z, (00 to 99) (A-Z, avoid I (0001-9999) 

avoid I and and O) 
O) 

Last 2 To identify the To identify the To identify the Serial number, 
digits of School/ Program and category of allotted to students 
the year of College/Dept/ specialization and admission (all admitted in a year, 
admission Broad area of Level India/UK starting from 0001 

the discipline (UG/PG/Ph.D etc.) Domicile etc.) to 9999. 
and mode of 
admission 
(direct/lateral 
etc.) 

Note: 

a) The first 2 digits and the last 4 digits will not change for a student, 
once allotted at the time of admission.  Characters 3 to 6 may change 
during the study of the student, depending on any change in the degree 
program or level of the student during his study at the university.  

b) The Roll Number of the student at any given time identifies the status 
of the student at that time. For the purpose of identifying the history 
of the student at the university, the student’s past roll numbers may be 
referred to, using the unique ERP ID number of the student.  

c) The Detailed Breakdown of the above codes shall be available in the 
Program Catalog. 

(ii) ERP ID Number:  Apart from the roll number, a student shall be assigned a 
unique ERP ID number for the purpose of record keeping. During the 
existence of the students on-roll (from admission till graduation) the roll 
number of a student may change depending on the change of program of 
study, specialization etc. (if any). However, the ERP ID shall be unique and 
will not change for a given student.  The ERP ID number will consist of 10 
digits and shall be system generated at the time of admission. 
 

6. REGISTRATION 
 
Each degree program shall be specified in terms of minimum requirement of 
courses and credits, as approved by the Academic Council. Every student will be 
required to formally register in each of the courses before the student is permitted 
to attend classes and appear in evaluation, assessments, exams, etc. in the 
corresponding course.  

This registration shall take place at the beginning of every 
Semester/Trimester/Summer Term as explained below: 

a) There shall be a normal Semester/Trimester wise course pattern for each 
degree program. 

b) It shall be the responsibility of the student to ensure that she/he registers in 
the courses as per the prescribed pattern given in the Program Catalog. 

c) However, if a student is unable to complete the courses as per the prescribed 
pattern due to any reason or has backlog in one or more courses and thus 
becomes a backlog student, the following shall apply – 

(i) The student shall first register in backlog courses, if they are offered in 
the current Semester/Trimester. 

(ii) After exhausting the above, the student may register in the courses that 
are remaining in the Semester/Trimester as per the prescribed pattern, 
provided the total number of the credits is less than the total number of 
permissible credits for a Semester/Trimester in the structure of the degree 
program, as given in the Program Catalog. 

(iii) A student failing in a mandatory/named course must re-register in the 
course in the subsequent Semester/Trimester when the course is offered 
and get a valid grade.  In other courses, a Fail grade in a course may mean 
re-registering in the same course or another course from the same basket 
of courses to which the failed course belongs to, in order to meet the 
graduation requirements. 

(iv) After registering in the courses as above, the student may register in 
additional courses after taking prior permission from Dean/HoD, 
provided the total number of credits is less than the limit for a 
Semester/Trimester in that program. The respective Deans/HoDs may 
permit such requests only when there are additional seats available after 
the registration of normal and backlog students.  

(v) There will be no provision for back paper exam, grade improvement 
exam, auxiliary exam or any other special exam, unless specifically 
approved by the Academic council and specified in the Program Catalog.  

At any time, if a student falls below a minimum academic performance criterion, 
he/she shall be monitored by a separate committee [Academic Progression and 
Counselling Board (APCB)] as detailed later in this document.  A student under 
the purview of APCB, will be governed by the restrictions imposed by the APCB 
instead of the above clauses. 
 
6.1 Registration Process 
 

(i) At the beginning of each semester/trimester, the student shall register for 
the courses in that semester/trimester, before the start of classes, as 
declared in the Academic Calendar. The registration will be permitted only 
after the payment of requisite fee for the Semester/Trimester.  

(ii) Students who have not registered on the dates announced shall have to 
register before the last date for registration (including the window for late 
registration which shall be normally within a week of scheduled date of 
registration).  

(iii)Once registered, a student may be allowed to withdraw from a course or 
modify the registration or withdraw from the full Semester/Trimester 


(Semester/Trimester break) within a specified date, only on genuine 
written request to the competent authority. The modification of course 
registration shall be permitted by The Dean Academic Affairs on 
recommendation by the Dean of the School.  The application for 
withdrawal from the Semester/Trimester shall to be submitted to the 
Registrar and the same will be approved by the Vice Chancellor. Note that 
the Semester/Trimester fee once paid is non-refundable in such cases. 

(iv) The names of the on-rolls students who do not register in two consecutive 
Semesters/Trimesters without permission shall be struck-off from the rolls 
of the University 

 

 
6.2 Late Registration 
 

For any compelling reason such as illness, if a student is unable to register on the 
day of registration, he/she shall seek permission for late registration within the 
deadline specified in the Academic Calendar. Late registration requests will be 
recommended by the Dean of the School and approved by the Dean Academic 
Affairs.  

 
6.3 Registration for courses during Summer Term 
 
(i) The University may offer few courses during the summer term. If the ‘normal 
semester-wise pattern’ of the program specifically mentions any course during a 
summer term, such courses will be available for registration during the summer. 
In addition to these courses, few more courses may be offered by a department 
during summer depending on the resources available, and the concerned 
department will announce the same before the start of summer term. Only such 
courses will be available for summer registration by the students.   
(ii)  The maximum number of courses a student shall be permitted to register 
during the summer term is three (3), subject to the condition that the total number 
of credits do not exceed 15.  
(iii) Certain courses like project/thesis/seminar/dissertation of max 5 credits each 
may be offered during summer, based on the approval by the Dean Academic 
Affairs. 
Any deviation to the above needs to be put up to the Chairman of the Academic 
Council for consideration and approval. 

 
6.4 Credit Limit for registration in a given Semester/ Trimester/Summer 

Term 
 

There will be a limit to the maximum number of credits a student will be allowed 
to register in any Semester/Trimester/Summer Term.  These may vary from 
program to program and shall be approved by the Academic Council and declared 
in the program catalog. Typically, these credits will be in the range of 24 to 30 in 
a Semester/Trimester, 20 to 24 in a Trimester and 12 in a Summer Term, and 
depends on the degree programs  

6.5 Cancellation of Registration 
 

Absence by a student for a period of two or more weeks at a stretch, without prior 
permission, during a Semester/Trimester may result in the cancellation of 
registration of the student from all the subjects in that semester/trimester.  
 
6.6 Temporary Withdrawal Procedure 
 
A student may be permitted not to register in a semester/trimester, due to specific 
reasons such as on medical grounds, subject to the following condition: 
The student has to submit the request to the Dean, Academic Affairs through the 
Dean of the respective School enclosing the documentary proof in support of 
his/her request.  The same shall be forwarded to the Vice Chancellor for approval. 
 

7. PROGRAM FEE: 

 
The Fees payable by the student admitted to the University is decided and 
approved by the competent authority of the Institute and the same is announced to 
the students at the time of admissions.  

1. Every student has to pay the required Semester/Trimester fee as applicable 
to his/her degree program before the student can register for courses in a 
given Semester/Trimester. 

2. In addition to the regular Semester/Trimester fee, the university will 
announce a summer term fee.  If any course is structured to be offered 
during the summer term as announced in the normal Semester/Trimester -
wise pattern, the student will not be charged a separate summer term fee. 
In all other cases, the student has to pay the summer term fee (apart from 
the regular Semester/Trimester fee) before registering in any course in the 
summer term.  

 

8. ATTENDANCE 
 

Students are required to attend all lectures, tutorials, practical and participate in 
other prescribed curricular and co-curricular activities. The class participation is 
mandatory.  
The attendance shall be recorded by the Course instructor and regularly updated 
on the ERP system. In order to appear in the end-term examination of a course, 
the student must have attended at least 75% of the classes scheduled for the course 
before the particular examination. The school/department shall announce the 
names of students who do not meet the attendance criteria and are debarred from 
appearing in the end-term examinations. The Dean/Director/Principal of the 
School/College shall recommend cases of exceptions, in genuine cases such as 
medical grounds, to the Dean Academic Affairs who shall examine the cases and 
recommend these to the Vice Chancellor for final approval. Students must note 
that attending classes as per the requirements is their basic responsibility and in 
genuine cases the student shall seek prior permission from Course Instructor before the absence. Only in exceptional and unanticipated cases, the application
to the instructor for condonation may be made after the event of absence.  
For calculating the attendance of a student in a course, the total classes engaged 
by the teacher in the Semester/Trimester shall be taken for reference. No 
relaxation shall be given on attendance requirement for late registration by the 
student.  
 
Each School/department will also monitor the attendance of the students before 
the mid-term examination, and if the attendance of any student is very poor, the 
student may be debarred from appearing in the mid-term examination also. 

 
The Vice Chancellor will review the 75% attendance requirement policy from 
time to time and in the overall interest of students and the system of teaching and 
evaluation may modify the cut-off attendance requirement for attending the end-
term examination in any given semester. In all such cases, the decision of the Vice 
Chancellor will be final and binding on the students. 
 

9. TEACHING AND EVALUATION 
 
Effective classroom education aims to ignite students' curiosity, cultivate critical 
thinking skills, prepare them for unfamiliar situations, and empower them to learn 
independently. While classroom instruction organizes and connects facts, 
promotes understanding of ideas, and fosters creative knowledge application, 
teachers have an additional responsibility: to encourage students to seek 
knowledge themselves and utilize resources like libraries, labs, and their 
environment to optimize learning. Self-directed learning is, therefore, a crucial 
factor in designing teaching and evaluation strategies. Students are expected to 
cooperate and rise to this challenge. 
 
Teaching and evaluation are interconnected and operate in a trusting environment 
built on mutual understanding. To ensure shared responsibility, these regulations 
provide some formal guidance. 
 
9.1 Course Instructor/Coordinator and roles: 
 
Each course, single or multi-section, shall be led by a faculty member called 
the Course Instructor/Coordinator. In a multi-section course, the Course 
Coordinator will be assisted by other instructors, who shall collaborate to achieve 
the full academic objectives and organizational needs for teaching the course and 
evaluating students. When the roles and responsibilities of the Course Coordinator 
is mentioned, it should be understood that it refers to this team of instructors acting 
as a unit under the coordinator’s overall guidance.  

 
Before the Semester/Trimester begins, the instructor(s) shall create a 
comprehensive course plan. In multi-section courses, continuous communication 
within the team of instructors must be ensured for smooth operation. While 
recognizing individual teaching styles, it shall be important to minimize 

significant variations to ensure consistent operation and grading across sections 
within the same course, as well as across different courses within the department. 

 
Within the first week of the semester, the Course Coordinator must provide a 
handout outlining important information, including: 

(i) Course operations: pace, coverage, level of detail, textbooks, 
readings, and assignments. 

(ii) Evaluation components: tutorials, labs, assignments, 
quizzes/tests/exams (announced or unannounced, open or closed 
book) 

(iii) Frequency, duration, schedule, and weighting of each evaluation 
component. 

(iv) Policies on Makeup exam (if permitted) 
(v) Additional grading procedure (if any, in addition to the details 

provided in this ordinance) 
 
The detailed roles and responsibilities of the Course Instructors, Course 
Coordinators, Program Coordinators, HoDs, Deans for successful conduct of 
courses shall be given in the ‘Handbook for Teachers’. 
 

10. EVALUATION AND GRADING: 
 
10.1 Continuous Evaluation 

 
All structured courses shall necessarily have continuous evaluation and 
comprehensive end-term examination components. These components shall be 
distributed throughout the semester/trimester to assess students' various skills, such 
as the students understanding of concepts, applying concepts to applications, 
independent work, constructing arguments, and handling unfamiliar 
situations. The end-term examination shall be comprehensive and cover the entire 
course.  

 
Continuous Evaluation component may include the following as per the 
requirement of the course: 

 
(i) Quiz 
(ii) Assignment 
(iii) Mid Term 
(iv) Lab Assessment 
(v) Mini Project/Field Project 
(vi) Case analysis and Presentation 

 
Specific evaluation methods and instruments may apply to courses with 
Industrial/Summer Training, Theses, Seminars, and Dissertations. Refer to 
Program catalog and “Assessment and Evaluation Guidelines” documents for the 
details. 

While each Theory course will have End-Term Examination, a course with 
Theory and Practical shall have separate End Term Lab Assessment and End Term 
Theory Assessment. 
 
In a continuous teaching and learning environment, it is important that undue 
weightage is not given to a single component in deciding the performance of the 
students. While the academic Schools/Colleges shall decide the actual distribution 
of weightage of individual component of a course, the weightage given to end term 
examination should not be more than 40 percent and not less than 30 percent. 
Similarly, the weightage of Mid Term shall be fixed by the school ensuring the 
total weightage of components other than midterm and end term exams is not less 
than 40 percent of the total evaluation components. The applicable evaluation 
components shall be enumerated in the Program Catalog. 
 
10.2 OPEN-BOOK Evaluation: 
 
At least 10% of the evaluations for undergraduate courses and 20% for 
postgraduate courses must be conducted in an open-book format. It should be noted 
that an open book examination is not an evaluation component by itself but is a 
mode of conduct of the test or exam similar to ‘closed book component’ or ‘online 
quiz’ etc. Take-home assignment, by its nature, will be of open book format.  

 
10.3 Grading System: 

 
At the end of each semester/trimester/summer term, students shall receive grades 
for each of the courses registered. Grades will be based on the overall performance 
of the student considering all the evaluation components in the course. The 
University follows a Relative grading system, and therefore, the relative 
performance of the student, in relation to other students who have taken the course 
during the Semester/Trimester will be used for assigning grades.  
 
The following ‘Letter Grades’ shall be assigned in courses based on the 
performance of students in each course. 
 

Grades Performance Level Grade 
Points 

A+ Outstanding 10 
A Excellent 9 
B+ Very Good 8 
B Good 7 
C+ Fair 6 
C Average 5 
D Marginal 4 
F Fail 0 
 

To get a valid grade (i.e., D and above), a student has to obtain a minimum of 30% 
marks in Total (aggregate of all evaluation component in the course) and, in 
addition, 30% marks in the End term examination if there is an end term 
examination in the course. For courses where there are no end term examinations, 
the student has to obtain a minimum of 30% in all the evaluation components in 
total.  
The end term examination will comprehensively evaluate the understanding and 
the knowledge in specific course. Every student is required to appear in the end 
term examination to be eligible to be awarded a grade in the course. As a 
consequence, students who do not appear in the end term examination will be given 
“Fail” grade in the said course. 
 
For Ph.D. Program, the passing percentage in the End Term Examination and total 
(aggregate of all evaluation component in the course) shall be as per Clause. No. 
16.2.1 
Note: The minimum marks required to get a valid grade may differ from the above 
in certain programs such as Pharmacy, Architecture, Planning, Nursing, Healthcare 
professions, to meet the criteria imposed by Statutory bodies such as Pharmacy 
Council of India, Council of Architecture, Indian Nursing council etc. In such 
cases, the criteria applicable to such courses will be described in the Program 
catalog. 
Apart from the above, there will be few courses which may be of a nature that does 
not yield itself to a structured grading pattern given above. In such cases, non-letter 
grades as mentioned below will be used.  

(i) Good,  
(ii) Satisfactory,  
(iii) Unsatisfactory 
(iv) Poor 

Note that “Non-Letter Grades” shall not be counted in the calculation of CGPA. 
 
In certain instances, it is possible that the instructor is unable to assign a 'Grade' to 
the student within the specified deadline due to reasons such as pending one or 
more evaluation components, or the student is permitted to appear in the end-term 
examination on a later date etc.  In such a case, the instructor will report it as ‘I’ 
(Incomplete) and the same will be recorded in the system.  It is the responsibility 
of the concerned student and the instructor to ensure that the ‘I’ report is converted 
into a valid grade at the earliest. When a student has a ‘I’ grade against one or more 
courses, the student may be allowed to register for courses in the following 
semester if there is sufficient evidence that the ‘I’ will be converted to a valid grade 
soon.  Such registration will be provisional and subject to modification based on 
the final grade awarded.  
 
After a student has registered for a course, there may be instances where the student 
withdraws from the course after the deadline, or the registration is cancelled by an 
executive order (example as in Disciplinary cases), etc.  All such cases shall be 
reported in the grade sheet, transcript etc. by assigning one of the following letters 
as a 'report'. These letters do not have any credit points or grade points attached. 

 
W: Withdrawn from the course after last date of withdrawal 
RC: Registration cancelled by the authority due to indiscipline, UFM 

etc. 
RTR: Required to Repeat a course as decided by competent authority 

 
10.4 Semester/Trimester   and   Cumulative   Grade   Point Average 

(TGPA/SGPA / CGPA) 
 

The Semester/Trimester Grade Point Average (SGPA / TGPA) shall be a 
weighted average of the grade points earned by a student in all the subjects 
he/she registered in a semester/trimester and shall describe his/her overall 
performance in that semester/trimester.  If the points associated with the 
letter grades awarded to a student are G1, G2, G3,…….Gk  and the corresponding 

credits are C1, C2, C3,.…..Ck, the SGPA/ TGPA shall  be 

given by: 
 

 
  

Where 
 

 
th   

Ci=Number of credits assigned to the i subject & Gi   is grade point 
th 

equivalent to the letter grade obtained by the student in i subject. 

 

 

k=the number of subjects for which the candidate has registered during the 
semester/ trimester. 

 
 The Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) shall indicate the overall 

academic performance of a student in all the subjects registered upto and 
including the latest completed semester/ trimester/ Summer Term. It shall be 
computed in the same manner as the SGPA/ TGPA, considering all the 
subjects (say, n), and shall be given by: 

 
 
 
 

where, 
 

th 
Ci=Number of credits assigned to the i subject & Gi is graded point equivalent 

th 
to the letter grade obtained by the student in i subject. 

 
n = no. of all subjects completed. 

 
When a student repeats a subject, the new grade will replace the earlier one with 
the calculation of CGPA.  

 
 

 Marks percentage equivalent of CGPA, if required, can be obtained by 
multiplying the CGPA by 10. Similarly, the grade to marks conversion for 
individual courses can also be multiplied by 10 with corresponding grade points.  

10.5 Progression of a Student in a Degree Program (Admission to 

Graduation): 
The students enrolled in a program will progress through their studies as per the 
following rule: 

(i) For each of the program offered, there shall be “Normal 
Semester/Trimester wise Pattern” given in the program catalog 
document. Students will be expected to follow the pattern, 
accumulate/obtain valid grades in courses and progress as per the chart.  

(ii) There may be cases where a student is unable to progress as per the 
normal chart due to reasons such as, (i) withdrawal from 
Semester/Trimester or a course (ii) obtaining fail “F” Grade in certain 
courses. Whenever a student falls behind due to such reasons, it is the 
responsibility of the student to complete the back logs at the earliest 
opportunity and catchup with the normal pattern.  

(iii) While minor deviation from the normal pattern may be managed by a 
student, it will be necessary to monitor cases which are major deviations 
from the normal pattern. In such cases, a ‘Academic Progression and 
Counselling Board (APCB)’ shall deal with the following categories of 
students where there are major deviations from the normal pattern: 
 

Category A:  Students who fall short by two third or more of the credits at any 
given time as compared to the normal chart, 
Category B: Students with less than 3.0 CGPA at any given time,  
Category C: Students who have obtained 3 or more fail grades in the previous 
Semester/Trimester. 
All such cases will be monitored and counselled by the APCB as explained in the 
Clause Number 11. 
 
10.6  Restriction of Access to courses 
 

(i) A student shall not register in a Discipline Elective Course unless 
he/she has started registration in the Discipline Core Courses as per 
the pattern in a given semester. 

(ii) Students may be allowed to take courses of later Semester/Trimester 
in the normal chart, provided the student is not under APCB and 
department has sufficient seats in the course, and the student has done 
very well in academics till date. This will be done in a controlled 
manner and permitted by the Dean of the school, on recommendation 
by the Instructor and HoD. 

(iii) Before registering in a Capstone project, mostly offered in the last 
Semester/Trimester of study, the student shall have normally 
completed all the courses under discipline core and discipline 
electives and shall not be under APCB.   In order to enable few 
students who may have marginal shortage of courses to complete the 
degree in time, the Dean of the School may permit students with a 
maximum of 3 pending courses under the Discipline Core and Discipline Electives considered together to register in the capstone
project. 

(iv) In limited cases, meritorious UG students may be allowed to take 
courses of PG level with prior permission from respective Dean/Heads 
of Department. 

 
11. ACADEMIC PROGRESSION AND COUNSELLING BOARD 

(APCB) 
 

All students at the beginning of every Semester/Trimester with CGPA less than 
3.0 shall be brought under APCB. Once a student is under APCB, the student 
foregoes his or her freedom to choose the courses in the upcoming 
Semester/Trimester. The APCB, shall be empowered to regulate the progress of 
the student in terms of number of courses/credits that the student can register in 
the Semester/Trimester. Further, APCB will counsel the student and take an 
undertaking from the student about the minimum grade/performance in each of 
the courses to be registered in the upcoming Semester/Trimester so that he or she 
can come out of APCB at the earliest. Any student who repeatedly falls short of 
meeting the commitment made and does not follow the advice sincerely, may be 
asked to shift to a less rigorous program or discontinue from the University. 
 
There is no year-wise pass in terms of academic progression.  However, programs 
governed by specific councils such as CoA, PCI, NCI, etc. may have additional 
requirements in terms for progression which will be applicable to students 
admitted to degree programs that are regulated by these councils.  These details 
shall be given in the Program Catalog. 
 
The constitution of APCB shall be as follows: 

(i) Dean Academic Affair- Chairman 
(ii) Associate Dean, Academic Affair- Member 
(iii) Dean/Principal/Director of the respective Schools - Member 
(iv) HoD of the concerned department- Member 
(v) IQAC Coordinator-Member 

 
 

12. ACADEMIC FLEXIBILITY: CHANGE OF PROGRAM  
 

(i) A student, once admitted to a degree program, may seek a transfer to a 
different degree program.  Such request will be examined as per the details 
below, and are limited in number. 

(ii)  The Change of Program, if any, will be made at the commencement of an   
Academic Year and subject to availability of seats in the new program. 
The program change shall be strictly based on merit with no regard to 
category/subcategory of admission. 

(iii) A student may submit an application to Dean Academic Affairs in the 
prescribed format. This is normally allowed at the end of any Academic 

Year, during May-June. The APCB also may recommend a change of 
degree based on its discretion. 

(iv) While it will be easier to deal with cases of such transfers at the end of the 
first year, it will become more complex and difficult if a student is to be 
transferred at a later stage.  

 
12.1 Eligibility for program change: 

 
(i) Whenever a student is applying for program change, the student needs to 

meet the minimum eligibility criteria for the target program as applicable 
at the time of admission. 

(ii) Usually, such transfers are limited in number and limited to students who 
are meritorious with CGPA 8.0 or above. The committee may examine 
other requests where the CGPA is at least 6.0, and recommend these for 
change if there are sufficient reasons and it does not create any other 
operational difficulties.  

(iii) It should be clear that whether the student is directly admitted or 
transferred to a program, he/she shall fulfill the requirement of courses and 
credits specified for that program before the student is eligible for 
graduation. 

(iv) All such transfer requests will be considered by a committee comprising 
of Dean Academic Affairs, Dean of respective Schools, Head of the 
Department and Dean Student Welfare, and recommended to Vice 
Chancellor for the final decision.  

(v) While the above conditions describe the eligibility, mere fulling the CGPA 
criteria or other conditions shall not guarantee change of program. The 
committee shall ensure that the source program is not depleted of student 
strength and the target program is not overloaded. 

 

13. GRADUATION 

 
For UG and PG Programs the students shall complete the required number of 
courses and credits as specified in the program catalog and secure a minimum 
CGPA of 5.00 at the end of the program, to be eligible for award of the degree. 
Further, the programs offered in the area of Pharmacy, Architecture, Nursing and 
Healthcare Professions may have additional criteria set for the award of degree 
under the purview of such Regulatory Bodies/Councils. The Program catalog will 
provide more information in this regard. 
 
The students should have no disciplinary action pending and no fee dues 
pending against them for award of Diploma / Degrees. 
 
Students once found to be eligible for the award of degree as per clause above will 
be issued a provisional degree/diploma certificate in prescribed format on written 
request by the students. The final degree/diploma certificate shall be issued during 
the convocation. 

14.  ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES: 
 
14.1 The Controller of examination (CoE) Responsibilities:  
 
The Controller of Examinations of the University shall be responsible for ensuring 
smooth and efficient operation of all Evaluations and Grading. The mid-term and 
end-term examinations will be scheduled, announced and monitored by CoE and 
his office, with assistance from the Deans, HoDs and faculty members of the 
Departments. While the detailed responsibilities of the CoE are given in the 
Statutes of the University, it will not be possible to centrally monitor the conduct 
of all components by the CoE or his office. From time to time, through appropriate 
orders, certain responsibilities of CoE may be delegated to the Dean of the 
respective schools. 
Broad Guidelines and Details of assessment and evaluation schemes, as approved 
by the Academic council from time to time, applicable for all courses shall be 
described in “Assessment and Evaluation Guidelines” document. Further, 
Individual variations and greater details of the evaluation scheme for each course 
will be decided by the concerned departments and will be given in the ‘Program 
Catalog’. 

 
14.2 Student Responsibilities: 
 
Students shall be responsible for attending all classes, participating in quizzes, 
tests, and exams, and submitting assignments promptly and properly. If a student 
misses an evaluation component for any genuine reason, he/she shall inform the 
course coordinator at the earliest, normally before the evaluation component is 
conducted, and only in unexpected cases after the evaluation component is 
conducted. The course instructor/coordinator may offer a makeup option as long 
as the instructor believes the request is genuine and will offer a makeup to 
replicate the original evaluation format as closely as possible. Students 
anticipating a genuine difficulty with a scheduled evaluation should discuss it with 
the course coordinator beforehand. The course coordinator's decision on makeup 
for regular components will be binding on the student. In the case of centrally 
managed components (e.g. end-term examinations), the decision on makeups will 
be approved by the Dean Academic Affairs after taking inputs from the concerned 
HoDs and Deans. 

 
15. CANCELLATION OF ADMISSION OR DISCONTINUATION 

FROM THE PROGRAM 
 

The admission of a student at any stage of study shall be cancelled if he/she is 
later found to be ineligible for admission as per the eligibility criteria prescribed 
by the University or found to have submitted any false document. 
 
The Vice chancellor may issue an order to discontinue any student from the 
program and the Institute and the student’s name will be struck-off the rolls if  

(i) He/she is found unable to complete the Programme within the prescribed 
duration.  

OR 
(ii) On the recommendation of the Disciplinary committee when the student is 
found guilty of serious indiscipline and gross violation of code of conduct.  

 
16. ADDITIONAL CLAUSES FOR Ph.D. PROGRAM 

 
The Academic Program leading to the Ph.D. Degree shall be broad-based and will 
involve Minimum Course Credit requirement and a Research Thesis. The 
University will encourage interdisciplinary areas through a system of co-
supervision. 

 

The Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) shall be conferred on a candidate, 
who fulfils all the requirements specified in these Ordinances, on approval of the 
Board of Governors on the recommendations of the Academic Council.  

 
16.1 Admission and Eligibility for Ph.D. Program 

 

Candidates who have completed either (i) 1-year/2-semester Master's Degree 
Program after a 4- year/8-semester Bachelor’s Degree Program or (ii) a 2-year/4-
Semester Master’s Degree Program after a 3-year Bachelor’s Degree Program or 
(iii) has educational qualifications declared equivalent to the Master’s Degree 
by the corresponding statutory regulatory body, with at least 55% marks [either 
of (i)-(iii)] in aggregate or its equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading 
system is  followed  or  equivalent  qualification  from a  foreign  educational  
institution accredited by an assessment and accreditation agency which is 
approved, recognized or authorized by an authority, established or incorporated 
under a law in its home country or any other statutory authority in that country 
to assess, accredit or assure quality and standards of the educational institution. 

 
A relaxation of 5% of marks, from 55% to 50%, or an equivalent relaxation of 
grade, may be allowed for those belonging to DIVYANGJAN (differently-abled) 
category of candidates. The eligibility marks of 55% (or an equivalent grade in a 
point scale wherever grading system is followed) and the relaxation of 5% to the 
category mentioned above shall be permissible based only on the qualifying 
marks without including the grace mark procedures. 
 

16.1.1 Admission procedure 
 

Admission to the Ph.D. program shall be made as per the following procedure: 
 

(i) Candidates who have not qualified in any National level test will have 
to appear in DIT University Eligibility Test (DUET). Examples of 
National Level tests are: UGC-NET (including JRF and NET-Ph.D.) 
/ UGC-CSIR NET (including JRF and NET-Ph.D.)/ SLET / GATE / 
DOE / DST / DBT / NBHM / CUCET / ICCR / ICAR / GPAT 
/Teacher Fellowship holder or equivalent national examination 
Qualifying cut off marks in DUET will be 50% of the total marks. 

(ii) The Entrance Test syllabus shall consist of 50% of research 

methodology and 50% shall be subject specific. 
 
(iii) DIT University will decide the number of eligible candidates to be 

called for an interview based on the number of Ph.D. seats available. 
 
(iv) Provided that for the selection of candidates based on the entrance 

test conducted by the DIT University, a weightage of 70% for the 
entrance test and 30% for the performance in the interview/viva- voce 
shall be given. 

 
(v) Candidates who have qualified National Level Test shall be permitted 

to be admitted in the Ph.D. program throughout the year. 
 
(vi) Candidates who have qualified National level test, will be exempted 

from DUET. These candidates will be adjudged on the basis of 
personal interview with 100% weightage. 

 
(vii) Candidates who have either qualified the DUET or are exempted from 

the DUET shall be called for the common interview scheduled by the 
University. 

 
(viii) The admissions to the Ph.D. program shall be done through 

counselling based on the overall merit. Candidates will be required to 
present their research interests at the time of interview. 

 
16.1.2 Full time and Part time Ph.D. Program 

 
Admission of students to the Ph.D. program shall be under one of the 
following two categories: 

 
(i) Full-Time Ph.D. 
(ii) Part-Time Ph.D. 

 
While the university will normally look for enriching its research program 
through Full- Time Ph.D. students, understanding the need to support research in 
industries and other organizations to fulfil the country’s need for trained research 
personnel’s, university will admit Part-Time Ph.D. students from reputed 
organizations, provided: 

 
He/She is a working professional (including Faculty/Staff of DIT University), 
with at least two (02) years of work experience and should produce a “No 
Objection Certificate” (NOC) from his/her parent organization while applying, 
clearly stating that: 

 
(i) The candidate is permitted to pursue studies on a part-time basis. 
(ii) His/her official duties permit him/her to devote sufficient time for research.
(iii) If required, he/she will be relieved from the duty to complete the course work.
 

The admission criteria, process of admission, Pre-Ph.D. course requirement and 
all other rules and regulations as applicable to full-time Ph.D. students shall also 
be applicable to part-time Ph.D. students, except for the on-campus attendance 
requirements. 

 
The Vice Chancellor shall be empowered to permit the conversion of Ph.D. 
registration type i.e., from Full-Time (FT) to Part-Time (PT) and vice-versa, 
subject to recommendation of concerned Research Advisory Committee (RAC) 
and Dean Research and Consultancy (R&C).  

 
16.1.3 Place of work/Research Centre 

 
Ph.D. Scholars for their research shall work at DIT University or with the 
organizations, DIT University has signed the Memorandum of Understanding 
(MOU) for sharing research facilities viz. National Research Laboratories, R&D 
Organizations, PSUs, etc.  

 
Research topic which will be of interdisciplinary nature, Ph.D. Scholar will 
perform experiments or research work, attend Schools/ Seminars/ Conferences/ 
Workshops/ Meetings, etc. in India or abroad involving an active participation or 
field trips such as, Data Collection, Survey Work, etc. on recommendation of the 
concerned Supervisor(s), forwarded by the HoD/Dean (Research) on a case-to-
case basis. 
 

16.1.4 University Fellowship for Full-time (FT) Ph.D. Scholar 
 
The duration and amount of fellowship shall be as per the prevailing policy for 
the Full-time (FT) Ph.D. Scholar who will not be getting fellowship/remuneration 
from any other sources including Government/Semi-Government/Funded 
Projects, etc. The continuation of the Fellowship will be contingent on satisfactory 
academic and research performance as well as discharge of responsibilities 
assigned under the Fellowship scheme. 
 
The University Fellowship amount will be decided from time to time under 
specified terms and conditions. 
 
Full-time (FT) Ph.D. Scholar getting University Fellowship will be required to 
take up assigned responsibilities including 8-10 hours per week teaching / tutorial 
/laboratory or any other work assigned by HoD / Dean of School. If the attendance 
of a Ph.D. scholar will fall below 75% during a month, he/she will not be paid 
his/her Fellowship for that month. 

 
16.2 Pre-Ph.D. Course Work Registration 

 
(i) All Ph.D. scholars shall be required to register for Pre-Ph.D. course 

work (Core Courses and Elective Courses) in consultation with 
his/her Course Advisor/ Research Supervisor(s)/mentor and to be 
approved by Dean Research & Consultancy (R&C). The Pre-PhD 

course work will either be conducted at DIT University or may be a 
MOOC/ SWAYAM/ NPTEL course or a course conducted at partner 

Institute having MOU with DIT University. After successful 

completion of the course work, Ph.D. scholars will be required to 

register for their research work in the subsequent Semesters. 
(ii) All courses prescribed for Ph.D. course work shall be in 

conformity with the credit- hours instructional requirement and 
shall specify content, instructional and assessment methods. 

(iii) Those who have already completed the course work in M.Phil. 
program with the required CGPA score, may be exempted from 
doing the Pre-Ph.D. course work, and proceed directly to the 
post-course work part of the Ph.D. program, provided that 
exemption is recommended by the department and approved by 
Dean R&C.  All other candidates admitted to the Ph.D. program 
shall be required to complete the Pre-Ph.D. course work, as 
prescribed. 

 

16.3 Research Registration 
 

16.3.1 After successfully completing the Pre-Ph.D. course work, within an 
academic year of the date of admission, the Ph.D. scholar will be 
required to prepare a synopsis under the guidance of his/her Research 
Supervisor(s), which shall be presented before the Research Advisory 
Committee (RAC). The RAC will give its recommendation and forward 
it to the Dean R&C for the final approval for the proposed research 
topic. 

 

16.3.2 Minor changes in the topic/ title of the thesis may be done by the Ph.D. 
scholar on the recommendations of Research Advisory Committee 
before pre-submission seminar. The date of his/ her research candidature 
will be counted w.e.f. his/her date of admission to the Ph.D. Program. 

 

16.3.3 In every Semester the research scholar will have to register in a “Ph.D. 
Thesis” course with minimum credit recommended by the RAC till the 

submission of the thesis. The registration in every semester will be 
permitted only after the payment of prescribed Semester fee for 
that semester. 

 
16.4 Constitution of the Research Advisory Committee (RAC) 

 
16.4.1 RAC shall be constituted soon after the completion of course work is 

completed for a candidate by Supervisor(s) in consultation with the 
respective Director / Dean / Head. 

 
Note:   
(i) A Supervisor/Mentor shall be assigned for each scholar soon after the 

admission of the scholar. 
(ii) In case a mentor is assigned, the mentor will have to be replaced by a 

Supervisor within a Semester- the mentor may also become the supervisor 
provided he/she is eligible for Ph.D. thesis supervision and has the expertise 
required to supervise the thesis of the mentee. 

 

16.4.2  Constitution of Research Advisory Committee (RAC) shall be as follows: 

1. Head of the Department - Chairperson 
2. Research Supervisor - Member 
3. Co-Research Supervisor (if any) - Member 
4. Two experts to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor  

(Nominated experts must be eligible as per Clause No.  

16.5/16.5.6). In case of interdisciplinary research, the - Members 

experts may be from the same department or another 
department of DIT University. In special cases, an expert 
may be from a reputed Institution outside DIT University. 

 
 

16.4.3  Research Advisory Committee (RAC) shall have the following 
responsibilities - 

 

i. To review the research proposal and finalize the topic of research. 
 

ii. To guide the Ph.D. scholar to develop the study design and 
methodology of research. 
 

iii. To periodically review and assist the progress of the research work of 
the Ph.D. scholar. 
 

iv. If the progress of the Ph.D. scholar is found to be unsatisfactory, the 
Committee shall record the reasons for the same and suggest corrective 
measures. If the Ph.D. scholar fails to implement these corrective 
measures, the Committee may recommend to the Vice Chancellor, 
through Dean R&C, with specific reasons, for cancellation of the 
registration of the Ph.D. scholar. 

 

16.4.4  RAC shall meet at least once in a Semester and monitor the progress of 
the Ph.D. scholar and based on the suggestions of the committee, the 
Ph.D. scholar will take follow-up actions. 

 

16.4.5  All registered Ph.D. scholars shall be required to present their research 

progress to Research Advisory Committee once in every Semester and 
shall get satisfactory ‘S’ grade. If the Ph.D. scholar does not attend two 
consecutive meetings or if he/she gets unsatisfactory ‘U’ grade in two 
consequent RAC meetings, his/her admission may be cancelled. 

 
16.4.6  In case a Ph.D. scholar has to change the Title/Topic or Supervisor(s), 

it shall be done with the approval of the Research Advisory Committee 
(RAC). Ph.D. scholars will apply for the same in the prescribed format 
to Dean R&C. 

 

16.5 Research Supervisor/Co-Research Supervisor 
 

16.5.1 Permanent faculty members of DIT University (with Doctorate 
Degree), working as Professor/Associate Professor with at least five 
(05) Research Publications in peer-reviewed or refereed journals or 
working as Assistant Professors with at least three (03) Research 
Publications in peer-reviewed or refereed journals shall be recognized 
as a Research Supervisor or Co- Supervisor. 

 

(i) Provided further that, the publication should be in the 
indexed journals listed in the Web of Science/SCOPUS/SCI. 

(ii) High-quality journals which are not listed above, the Vice 
Chancellor may relax the above condition on recommendations of a committee constituted by the Vice
Chancellor with two experts (designation equivalent to a 
professor or above), Director / Dean /Principal/ HoD of the 
concerned department as member and Dean R&C as chair. 

 

16.5.2 A Co-Research Supervisor may be allowed from other departments of 
DIT University or from other partner Institution/ University, with whom 
DIT University has a MOU or from Institutions/Universities of National 
or International Repute/Eminence, with the recommendation of Dean 
R&C and approved by the Vice Chancellor. The Co-Research 
Supervisor should also fulfil the eligibility as mentioned in Clause No. 
16.5 

 

16.5.3 Ph.D. scholar may be allowed to take more than one Co-Research 
Supervisor in exceptional cases on recommendations of the Research 
Advisory Committee (RAC). 

 
16.5.4 For Ph.D. scholars working in Central government/ State government 

research institutions, to whom degrees will be awarded by DIT 
University, the scientists, equivalent to Professor/Associate 
Professor/Assistant Professor working in such government research 
institutions may be appointed as Research Co-supervisors, if they fulfill 
the required eligibility mentioned in Clause No. 16.5 Appointing a 
supervisor from any of the eligible faculty members of DIT University 
is mandatory for all such students. 
Provided that areas/disciplines in which there is no or a limited number 
of peer- reviewed or refereed journals are available, the above condition 
may be relaxed with approval of Vice Chancellor for recognition of a 
person as Research Supervisor with reasons recorded in writing. 

16.5.5 In case of Interdisciplinary/Multidisciplinary Research work, if 
required, a Co-supervisor from outside the Department/School/Centre/ 
College/University may be appointed. 

16.5.6 The maximum number of Ph.D. scholar registered under a Supervisor 
at any particular time shall be eight (08) for Professor, six (06) for 
Associate Professor and four (04) for Assistant Professor. 

16.5.7 The Research Supervisor of a candidate should belong to the discipline 
of research; however, Co-Research Supervisor may be from Cross 
Disciplinary/ Interdisciplinary field as per requirements of the research. 

16.5.8  Research Supervisor/ Co-Research Supervisor shall be appointed by 
Dean R&C in consultation with respective Director / Dean / HoD 
considering the specialization of Research Supervisor/ Co-Research 
Supervisor and topic of the research. 

16.5.9  If an approved Research Supervisor/ Co-Research Supervisor in later 
stages stops to supervise the scholar due to some reasons, the Ph.D. 
scholar may be permitted to choose different Supervisor by filling out 
standard supervisor change form provided that above-mentioned 
criteria in Clause No. 16.5 are satisfied. The Ph.D. scholar may continue 
his/her registration on the same topic after the recommendation of the 
concerned RAC. 

16.5.10 Criteria for selection of Ph.D. Supervisor when he/she is on 
leave/left/superannuated from the University 

(i) In case the Research Supervisor will be on leave for a period of one 
month to three months, then a Co-Research Supervisor may be 
identified by department and approved by the RAC of the Ph.D. 
scholar. 

(ii) In case the Research Supervisor will be on leave for a period of more 
than 3 months, then the status of the Supervisor may be changed to 
Co-Research Supervisor and a new Supervisor may be identified by 
the department and the RAC of the student, which will have to be 
approved by Dean, R&C. 

(iii) In case the Supervisor(s) resigned/left the University, then he/she will 
no longer continue as the Ph.D. Supervisor of the student. However, 
such faculty members may continue as Co-Supervisor if (a) he/she 
has already published research paper(s) and/or patents with the 
student that will form part of Ph.D. thesis of the student. and (b) the 
concerned department and RAC recommends the same and (c) No 
Objection Certificate (for this co-supervision) from the new Indian 
employer is received on the letter head of the competent authority in 
that organization. The RAC will finalize and recommend the name of 
the new Research Supervisor/ Co-Research Supervisor for the Ph.D. 
scholar. 

(iv) A superannuated faculty may not enroll fresh candidates but may 
continue supervising those candidates who have completed most of 
the work under his/her guidance (work duration: 03 years or above) 
but for others (work duration: less than 03 years) he/ she may propose 
a new Supervisor belonging to the discipline of research of the Ph.D. 
scholar. 

(v) Faculty members with less than three years of service before 
superannuation shall not be allowed to take new research scholars 
under their supervision. However, such faculty members can continue 
to supervise Ph.D. scholars who are already registered until 
superannuation and as a co-supervisor after superannuation, but not 
after attaining the age of 70 years. 

 
 

16.5.11 Selection criteria and allotment of Ph.D. scholar to Research 
Supervisor(s) 

 
(i) Constitution of personal interview panel for admission purpose will 

be as follows: 
 

a) Director / Dean/Principal of concerned School – Chairman 
b) Head of the concerned Department – Member Secretary 
c) All other recognized Ph.D. Supervisors of the concerned 

department who are willing to supervise Ph.D. scholars and 
have sufficient number of vacancies or as decided by concerned 
Director/Dean in consultation with all Professors and Associate 
Professors/ Senior Faculty members of the department. 

 

(ii) Ph.D. scholar will produce consent from the Ph.D. Supervisor(s) 
at this stage, through the prescribed format. 

(iii) Personal interview panel shall recommend the merit list of admitted 
Ph.D. candidates with a preferred domain of research. 

 

16.6 Duration of the Research Program 
16.6.1  Ph.D. Program shall be for a minimum duration of three (03) years,

including course work, and a maximum duration of six (06) years from 
the date of admission to the Ph.D. program. 

 

However, a maximum of an additional two (02) years can be granted in 
extraordinary circumstances only with recommendation of Research 
Advisory Committee (RAC) and after permission of the Vice 
Chancellor; provided that the total period for completion of a Ph.D. 
program should not exceed eight (08) years from the date of admission 
in the Ph.D. program. 

 

Provided further that, female Ph.D. scholars and Persons with 
Disabilities (having more than 40% disability) may be allowed an 
additional relaxation of two (02) years; however, the total period for 
completion of a Ph.D. program in such cases should not exceed ten (10) 
years from the date of admission in the Ph.D. program. 

 

16.6.2  In case of relocation of a female Ph.D. Scholar from another university 
due to marriage or otherwise, the scholar may be considered for transfer 
to DIT University, provided all the other conditions in these regulations 
are followed in letter and spirit and the research work does not pertain 
to the project secured by the parent Institution/University Supervisor(s) 
from any funding agency. The research data shall be allowed to be 
transferred to DIT University; however, such Ph.D. scholar will give 
due credit to the parent guide and the University for the part of research 
already done there. 

 
16.6.3  Leave Rules 

 
(i) Duty leave shall be permissible for Ph.D. scholars for 

performing experiments, attending schools/ seminars/ 
conferences/ workshops/ meetings etc. in India or abroad 
involving an active participation or field trips such as data 
collection, survey work, etc., on recommendation of the 
concerned Supervisor(s), forwarded by the HoD/Dean 
(Research) on a case-to-case basis. This kind of leave is also 
permissible for university related activities (e.g., sports, cultural 
fests, technical fests, etc.) on recommendation of the concerned 
Supervisor(s), forwarded by the concerned Faculty-In-charge/ 
Officer for the particular activity and subsequent approval by 
HoD on a case-to-case basis.  

(ii) All Full-time Ph.D. candidates shall be entitled for Personal 
Leave for a period of maximum 30 days per year (2.5 days 
leave per completed calendar month) in addition to Public 
Holidays. These leaves will not be carried over to the next 
Academic Year. Personal leave beyond 30 days and not more 
than 90 days in an Academic Year may be granted to a Ph.D. 
scholar in exceptional cases by the concerned Dean without 
Assistantship/Scholarship. 

(iii) Leave on medical ground, duly supported by a medical 
certificate, may be granted to a scholar for up to 10 days per year. Such leave shall not entail any loss of financial
assistantship. 

(iv) The female candidates may be provided Maternity Leave/Child 
Care Leave once in the entire duration of Ph.D. for up to 240 
days. The application shall be supported by a Medical 
Certificate. In such cases, the maximum period of registration 
may be extended by the period of maternity leave availed. When 
a scholar will be sanctioned such leave the enhancement of 
fellowship or comprehensive examination (in case it has not 
taken place yet) shall be deferred for the appropriate period. 
However, the date of termination of fellowship shall remain 
unchanged. 

(v) The male candidates shall be entitled for 15 days of paternity 
leave at a stretch only once during the tenure. This should be 
supported by a Medical Certificate. When a scholar is permitted 
to avail such leave the enhancement of fellowship or 
comprehensive examination (in case it has not taken place yet) 
shall be deferred for the appropriate period. However, the date 
of termination of fellowship shall remain unchanged. 

 

16.7 Pre-Submission Presentation and Open Seminar 
 

16.7.1  Pre-Submission Presentation (PSP) & Open Seminar 
 

(i) After certification by the Supervisor(s) that the Ph.D. scholar 
has completed his/her research work and is ready to submit the 
thesis, the supervisor shall recommend to the Head of the 
Department for pre submission seminar. The Head of the 
Department on ensuring that all conditions for pre submission 
seminar are satisfied will forward the candidate’s request to RAC. 
RAC will consider the certification and forward its 
recommendation to Dean R&C for approval of Pre-Submission 
Presentation request. Post approval the scholar shall be required 
to give Pre-Submission Presentation (PSP) of the research work 
before Research Advisory Committee for the approval for Thesis 
submission. 

(ii) Only RAC members can be present in the Pre-Submission 
Presentation. 

(iii) After successful completion of Pre-Submission Presentation 
(PSP), within one month candidate will have to present an Open 
Seminar. It will be open only to the faculty and students of that 
school.  

(iv) Within one month of Open Seminar, Ph.D. scholar shall submit 
a soft copy of the extended abstract (PDF) of the research work 
in the prescribed format to the Dean R&C.  
 

16.8 Submission of Thesis 
 

16.8.1 Thesis Submission 
 

For Thesis submission, Ph.D. scholar must fulfil the following requirements: 
 

(i) CGPA requirement: The scholar should have completed his/her Pre-Ph.D. 
course work with a CGPA of 6.00 or higher, and 

(ii) Scholarly output: The scholar will have to satisfy at least one of the five 
criteria (a)-(e) listed below:  

(a) Two original research papers in WoS/SCOPUS (or other well-
established high impact-factor peer-reviewed) journals in the field 
of research and a third publication which can be an original paper in 
an internationally reputed journal. OR 

(b) Two original research papers in WoS/SCOPUS (or other well-
established high impact-factor peer-reviewed) journals in the field 
of research and an original research paper published in a 
national/international conference proceeding. OR 

(c) Two original research papers in WoS/SCOPUS (or other well-
established high impact-factor peer-reviewed) journals in the field 
of research and publication of filed patent. OR 

(d) Two original research papers in WoS/SCOPUS (or other well-
established high impact-factor peer-reviewed) journals in the field 
of research and a third publication which can be a review article in 
a WoS/SCOPUS journal, based on the literature survey carried out 
by the Ph.D. scholar, OR  

(e) One original research paper in WoS/SCOPUS (or other well-
established high impact-factor peer-reviewed) journals in the field 
of research and two original research papers in proceedings of 
international conferences sponsored / recognized by leading non-
commercial international / national professional societies / 
academies.  OR 

(f) In addition, in specific cases that are not covered by any of the 
criteria (a)-(e) above, exceptions can be made with the approval of 
the Vice-Chancellor provided unambiguous recommendation and 
proper supporting justification for this purpose is forwarded by the 
corresponding RACs to the Vice Chancellor through Dean R&C.  
 

(iii) Permission from Research Advisory Committee (RAC) for Thesis 

submission.  

(iv) The thesis plagiarism must be checked using the authorized plagiarism software 
available in the University library. Plagiarism should not exceed more than 10% 
as per reported by the software. The detailed process is prescribed in the PhD 
guideline document. Report of the Plagiarism check shall be enclosed with the 
thesis countersigned by Ph.D. scholar and Supervisor(s). 
 

(v) The student will have to submit the no-dues certificate. 

(vi) The papers published in the Journals must be annexed at the end of the thesis 
and these must be part of the final thesis being submitted in the library. 

 

16.8.2 Initially only a softcopy of the Thesis prepared in the prescribed format, in Portable 
Document Format (.pdf) will have to be submitted electronically to Dean of Research 
& Consultancy (R&C) after approval by the Research Advisory Committee along 
with an application for submission and no dues clearance from the University. 

 
16.8.3 The Supervisor(s) of the Ph.D. scholar shall submit a list of Six (06) external 

examiners for exam panel to Dean R&C, for the purpose of adjudication of the 
Thesis. The Panel of Examiners shall include preferably, but not necessarily, 
four experts from India and Two experts from Foreign Universities, all of them 
should be renowned researchers on the topic of the thesis. The Supervisor(s) 
will have to provide the list of examiners in the prescribed format, along with 
a brief CV (not exceeding 100 words) of each of the proposed examiners. The 
Dean R&C will forward the list of the examiners for finalization to the Vice 
Chancellor. Vice Chancellor will approve any two examiners for examination 
of the thesis on his discretion from the submitted list of examiners. 

 

16.8.4 In case the Ph.D. scholar could not submit the Thesis within Two (02) months 
from the date of submission of the extended abstract, 

 
(i) Candidate will have to again present Pre-Submission Seminar and 

Open Seminar as per Clause no. 16.7. 
(ii) The panel of examiners may be reconstituted at the discretion of the 

Vice Chancellor. 
 

16.8.5 As per Clause No. 16.3.3, a Ph.D.  scholar shall pay the required Semester fee 

for the Semester registration. However, once a scholar submits his/her Ph.D. 
thesis to the Office of the Dean Research & Consultancy for further evaluation 

there won't be any Semester registration fee until the Ph.D. degree is awarded. 

No Semester fee for the registration in the odd Semester will be charged if the 
thesis is submitted on or before 30th June. Similarly, no registration fee will be 

charged for the even Semester if the thesis is submitted on or before 31st 
December. Never the less, after thesis submission, the Ph.D. scholar has to 
register every semester (without paying fees) till his/her successful defence of 
the Ph.D. Thesis. 

  
 

16.9 Evaluation of the Thesis 
 

The Thesis shall be evaluated independently by Two (02) external examiners as well 
as by the Supervisor(s). 

 

16.10 Revision and Resubmission of Thesis 
 

16.10.1 If any one or both of the external examiners make any suggestion or pose 
a question to improve the research work, the internal examiner shall 
communicate the same to the concerned Ph.D. scholar for necessary action. 
The Ph.D. scholar will have to respond to each of these comments and 
suggestions irrespective of whether or not the examiner recommends No 
Revision/Minor Revision/Major Revision. Only after the internal examiner 
is satisfied by the written response submitted by the Ph.D. scholar the same 
shall be communicated to the Dean R&C.  

 

16.10.2 In case external examiner recommends minor revisions in the thesis, 
the revisions incorporated by the Ph.D. scholar shall be communicated 
to the concerned external examiner within six (06) months duration 
from the date of receipt of the comments. In case of major revision, 
the corresponding duration shall be maximum one (01) year from the 
date of receipt of comments. 

 

(i) In case of minor revisions: no further extension beyond six (06) 
months will be granted to the student to implement the suggestions. 

(ii) In case of major revision: in exceptional circumstances, if the 
Ph.D. scholar will not be able to incorporate the suggestions in 


the prescribed time, then on the written request of the student, the 
RAC (wherein Dean of School concerned will also be an 
additional member) will examine the case. Based on the 
satisfactory ground of the case, the RAC may recommend to the 
Vice Chancellor for the grant of an extension of maximum up to 
six (06) more months. In such cases, the scholar must re-

register for the Semester by paying requisite fee. 
(iii) If Ph.D. scholar fails to submit his/her response to the examiner’s 

comments/suggestions/questions within the time limit, the Ph.D. 
scholar shall be declared ineligible for award of the Ph.D. degree. 

(iv) In case of major revision, if the response will not be received from 
the external examiner within one (01) month after sending the 
revised thesis, the supervisor of the thesis can send a request, 
through the Dean R&C, to the Vice-Chancellor for appointing a 
new external examiner. 

 

16.10.3 If one of the evaluation reports of the external examiner in case of Ph.D. 
thesis, is unsatisfactory and does not recommend viva-voce, while the 
other examiner recommends only minor/major revision the Institution/ 
University shall send the dissertation/thesis to another external examiner 
out of the submitted panel of examiners, after due approval of the Vice 
Chancellor for adjudication. Viva-voce examination shall be held only 
if the report of the latest examiner is satisfactory. If the report of the 
latest examiner is also unsatisfactory, the dissertation/thesis shall be 
rejected and the Ph.D. scholar shall be declared ineligible for the award 
of the degree. 

 

16.10.4 If both the external examiners reject the thesis, the Ph.D. scholar shall 
be declared ineligible for the award of the degree without further 
adjudication. 

 

16.11 Viva-Voce Examination 
 

16.11.1 The Viva-Voce Examination of the Ph.D. scholar cannot be conducted 
until and unless the revisions, irrespective of minor or major, are 
approved. After the approval of the acceptance of the revised thesis, the 
viva-voce examination of the Ph.D. scholar shall be conducted by the 
panel mentioned as below. It shall be open to be attended by Members 
of the Research Advisory Committee, all faculty members of the 
Department, other Ph.D. scholars and other interested experts/ 
researchers of the University 

 

16.11.2 Panel for Thesis Viva-Voce Examination 
 

1.  Dean R&C or Representative of Vice Chancellor - Chairman 
2.  Director / Dean /Principal/ HOD - Member 

3.  One external examiner from within India who has - Member 
evaluated the Thesis 

4.  Supervisor (Internal Examiner) - Member 
5.  Co- Supervisor (if any) - Member 

 

16.11.3 After satisfactory Viva-Voce examination, the Ph.D. scholar shall submit 
only one (01) printed copy and a soft copy (in PDF format) of the final 
 

accepted version of the thesis, as per Clause No. 16.7 to the Dean R&C 
office. The soft copy will be forwarded to the library. 

 

16.12 Award of Degree 
 

The Ph.D. scholars shall be declared eligible for the Award of Degree of Doctor of 
Philosophy in their respective disciplines only after completion of the course work 
with minimum CGPA of 6.00 and satisfactory completion of grade ‘S’ in their Thesis 
Viva-Voce examination. 

 

16.13 Depository With UGC 
 

On successful completion of the evaluation process and announcement of the award of 
Ph.D., the Librarian/Controller of Examination (COE) shall submit a soft copy of the 
Ph.D. Thesis to UGC portal(s) within a period of 30 days. 

 
Note:  

In case of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of any clause mentioned in this 
document or any other related aspects which may arise, the decision of the Vice 
Chancellor shall be final. 
